src/content/docs/journey-migration/making-the-switch.mdx, before:

---
title: "Gather your data"
tags:
- Learning paths
- Customer experience
- Migration
metaDescription: "How to gather your data for a transfer to New Relic from Datadog."
---

import journeyAbnormalLCP from 'images/browser_screenshot-crop_LCP-abnormal.png'

Introduction - Why should I fully migrate over to NR from DD? What do I need to ensure I have before making a full migration to New Relic?

## Migrate your data
Where do I get what I need from my system, apps, or DataDog? Where should I go from here when I'm done?

## Do more with your data

This should be our "next steps" section. We should link features unique to New Relic that Datadog doesn't have, as well as a general "get started" doc.

It would be helpful to have a reference sheet of DD to NR terminology translations so that DD users can more easily understand lingo differences between the two products

Possibly the most important single part of the series is “where do I go from here?”. We want the user to feel empowered to take on new challenges with NR that only our product can do, so we will need to make sure we don’t send them into a brick wall. Perhaps linking to “improving website performance using NR” is a good starting point.

Commit message:

fix(Sonic): Adding in more outline info from looking at our internal docs

src/content/docs/journey-migration/making-the-switch.mdx, after:

---
title: "Making the switch"
tags:
- Learning paths
- Customer experience
- Migration
metaDescription: "How to fully migrate your data monitoring from Datadog to New Relic."
---

import journeyAbnormalLCP from 'images/browser_screenshot-crop_LCP-abnormal.png'

Introduction - Why should I fully migrate over to NR from DD? What do I need to ensure I have before making a full migration to New Relic?

## Making the switch (placeholder)
Where do I get what I need from my system, apps, or DataDog? Where should I go from here when I'm done?

## Do more with your data

This should be our "next steps" section. We should link features unique to New Relic that Datadog doesn't have, as well as a general "get started" doc.

It would be helpful to have a reference sheet of any DD to NR terminology translations so that DD users can more easily understand lingo differences between the two products

Discuss advantages of our pricing policy 

Possibly the most important single part of the series is “where do I go from here?”. We want the user to feel empowered to take on new challenges with NR that only our product can do, so we will need to make sure we don’t send them into a brick wall. Perhaps linking to “improving website performance using NR” is a good starting point.


Info from current resources (to be changed heavily) 

* Help every engineer do their best work every day — using data, not opinions — at every stage of the software lifecycle.
