src/content/docs/journey-migration/migrating-from-dd.mdx, before:

---
title: "Migrate from Datadog to New Relic"
tags:
- Learning paths
- Customer experience
- Datadog
- Migration
metaDescription: "Migrating from Datadog to New Relic."
---
import migrationOurPhilosophy from 'images/migrate_image-crop_our-philosophy.png'

You can decide to switch data monitoring products for a variety of reasons. Maybe you've read an article or watched a video about a feature unique to New Relic that sparked your interest. Maybe you want to take a more comprehensive approach to your data while having the ability to identify issues as they arise from your monitored services in real time. Or maybe you just want to try something new and see how it works for your organization. 

Whatever the reason, you can try New Relic without needing to fully migrate from Datadog. You'll get full access to all of our tools for whatever fits best for your team. Best of all, you can try [for free](https://newrelic.com/signup).

<img
    title="Our philosophy"
    alt="An image displaying New Relic's core principle in data monitoring"
    src={migrationOurPhilosophy}
/>

## Understanding entities [#entities]

At New Relic, we base observability around the concept of entities. Essentially, anything that reports data to or contains data for New Relic that can be identified with a unique ID is an entity. We use a powerful mapping system to better link entities to work together and give you the ability to monitor virtually any data that you bring in to our system. All this to let you see exactly the data your care about at any level, without cluttering up your monitoring with things you don't want or need.

We've provided a series of tutorials to help you get started monitoring entities with New Relic. Below, you'll find information on setting up monitoring for infrastructure, applications, and logs, as well as dashboards and alerts to help you really control your data. 

The only prerequesite is a New Relic account: [sign-up for free](https://newrelic.com/signup) and you're ready to get started!

## Trying out New Relic [#migrate]

<DocTiles numbered>
  <DocTile title='Install infrastructure agents' path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-infra/" label={{text: "Tutorial", color: "pink"}}>Start by setting up observability for your entire infrastructure</DocTile>
  <DocTile title='Install APM agents' path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-APM/" label={{text: "Tutorial", color: "pink"}}>Next, set up monitoring for your apps and services </DocTile>
</DocTiles>

<DocTiles>
  <DocTile title='Monitor your logs' number='3' path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-logs/" label={{text: "Tutorial", color: "pink"}}>Continue by setting up monitoring for the data from your infrastructure and APM</DocTile>
  <DocTile title='Create dashboards' number='4' path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-dashboards/" label={{text: "Guide", color: "orange"}}>Then, learn how to navigate the New Relic UI and set up your dashboards</DocTile>
  <DocTile title='Making the switch' number='5' path="/docs/journey-migration/making-the-switch/" label={{text: "Guide", color: "orange"}}>Ready to make the full switch over from Datadog? Get started with everything you need here!</DocTile>
</DocTiles>

Commit message:

fix(Sonic): adding a curated interface section to the intro via feedback

src/content/docs/journey-migration/migrating-from-dd.mdx, after:

---
title: "Migrate from Datadog to New Relic"
tags:
- Learning paths
- Customer experience
- Datadog
- Migration
metaDescription: "Migrating from Datadog to New Relic."
---
import migrationOurPhilosophy from 'images/migrate_image-crop_our-philosophy.png'

You can decide to switch data monitoring products for a variety of reasons. Maybe you've read an article or watched a video about a feature unique to New Relic that sparked your interest. Maybe you want to take a more comprehensive approach to your data while having the ability to identify issues as they arise from your monitored services in real time. Or maybe you just want to try something new and see how it works for your organization. 

Whatever the reason, you can try New Relic without needing to fully migrate from Datadog. You'll get full access to all of our tools for whatever fits best for your team. Best of all, you can try [for free](https://newrelic.com/signup).

<img
    title="Our philosophy"
    alt="An image displaying New Relic's core principle in data monitoring"
    src={migrationOurPhilosophy}
/>

## Understanding entities [#entities]

At New Relic, we base observability around the concept of entities. Essentially, anything that reports data to or contains data for New Relic that can be identified with a unique ID is an entity. We use a powerful mapping system to better link entities to work together and give you the ability to monitor virtually any data that you bring in to our system. All this to let you see exactly the data your care about at any level, without cluttering up your monitoring with things you don't want or need.

We've provided a series of tutorials to help you get started monitoring entities with New Relic. Below, you'll find information on setting up monitoring for infrastructure, applications, and logs, as well as dashboards and alerts to help you really control your data. 

The only prerequesite is a New Relic account: [sign-up for free](https://newrelic.com/signup) and you're ready to get started!

## Using curated interfaces [#curate]

Wouldn't it be great if you had access to a wide array of information to see in your observability platform immediately after ingesting data, without having to set anything up? New Relic offers curated interfaces to give you just that and more. From the moment you start ingesting data, you'll have access to highly detailed levels of information from the get-go, as well a host of easy to use features that let you sort, find, contextualize, and investigate that data with just a click or two. 

This tutorial series will cover these curated interfaces in the form of premade dashboards for infrastructure, application, and log monitoring, as well as where to go to find hundreds of preconfigured dashboards for our other features, ready to use with guided installs. Spend less time setting up your tools and more time actually using them with New Relic.

## Trying out New Relic [#migrate]

<DocTiles numbered>
  <DocTile title='Install infrastructure agents' path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-infra/" label={{text: "Tutorial", color: "pink"}}>Start by setting up observability for your entire infrastructure</DocTile>
  <DocTile title='Install APM agents' path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-APM/" label={{text: "Tutorial", color: "pink"}}>Next, set up monitoring for your apps and services </DocTile>
</DocTiles>

<DocTiles>
  <DocTile title='Monitor your logs' number='3' path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-logs/" label={{text: "Tutorial", color: "pink"}}>Continue by setting up monitoring for the data from your infrastructure and APM</DocTile>
  <DocTile title='Create dashboards' number='4' path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-dashboards/" label={{text: "Guide", color: "orange"}}>Then, learn how to navigate the New Relic UI and set up your dashboards</DocTile>
  <DocTile title='Making the switch' number='5' path="/docs/journey-migration/making-the-switch/" label={{text: "Guide", color: "orange"}}>Ready to make the full switch over from Datadog? Get started with everything you need here!</DocTile>
</DocTiles>
