src/content/docs/journey-migration/migrating-logs.mdx, before:

---
title: "Migrating log monitoring"
tags:
- Learning paths
- Customer experience
- Datadog
- Latency
metaDescription: "How to migrate your log monitoring from Datadog to New Relic."
---

import journeyAbnormalLCP from 'images/browser_screenshot-crop_LCP-abnormal.png'

Intro - Why you should migrate log monitoring from NR to DD. Brief overview of migrating.

Screenshot goes here

## Compare log monitoring 
List the competitive differences between DD and NR for this feature
Where is this feature found in DD and NR

## Get started with New Relic log monitoring
How do I migrate/install this feature

Don't forget a screenshot or two!

Remove DD at the end

<SideBySide>
    <Side>
        <DocTiles variant="labs">
            <DocTile
                path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-apm/"
                label={{text: '⬅️ PREVIOUS', color: '#AFE2E3'}}    
            >
                See how to migrate APM monitoring from Datadog
            </DocTile>
        </DocTiles>
    </Side>
    <Side>
        <DocTiles variant="labs">
            <DocTile
                path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-UX/"
                label={{text: 'NEXT ➡️', color: '#AFE2E3'}}    
            >
                See how to migrate UX monitoring from Datadog
            </DocTile>
        </DocTiles>
    </Side>
</SideBySide>

Commit message:

fix(Sonic): Adding in more outline info from looking at our internal docs

src/content/docs/journey-migration/migrating-logs.mdx, after:

---
title: "Migrating log monitoring"
tags:
- Learning paths
- Customer experience
- Datadog
- Latency
metaDescription: "How to migrate your log monitoring from Datadog to New Relic."
---

import journeyAbnormalLCP from 'images/browser_screenshot-crop_LCP-abnormal.png'

Intro - Stress the importance of log monitoring. Talk about how we have out of the box solutions.
Discuss the advantages of the granularity of our logs as well as the level of customization we offer.
Bulleted list of high level points to overview log monitoring

Screenshot goes here

## Compare log monitoring 
List the competitive differences between DD and NR for this feature
Where is this feature found in DD and NR

## Get started with New Relic log monitoring
How do I migrate/install this feature

Don't forget a screenshot or two!

Remove DD at the end

<SideBySide>
    <Side>
        <DocTiles variant="labs">
            <DocTile
                path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-apm/"
                label={{text: '⬅️ PREVIOUS', color: '#AFE2E3'}}    
            >
                See how to migrate APM monitoring from Datadog
            </DocTile>
        </DocTiles>
    </Side>
    <Side>
        <DocTiles variant="labs">
            <DocTile
                path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-UX/"
                label={{text: 'NEXT ➡️', color: '#AFE2E3'}}    
            >
                See how to migrate UX monitoring from Datadog
            </DocTile>
        </DocTiles>
    </Side>
</SideBySide>
