src/content/docs/journey-migration/migrating-infra.mdx, before:

---
title: "Migrating infrastructure monitoring"
tags:
- Learning paths
- Customer experience
- Datadog
- Migration
metaDescription: "How to migrate your infrastructure monitoring from Datadog to New Relic."
---

import journeyAbnormalLCP from 'images/browser_screenshot-crop_LCP-abnormal.png'

Intro - Why you should migrate Infrastructure from NR to DD. Brief overview of migrating.

Screenshot goes here

## Compare infrastructure monitoring 
List the competitive differences between DD and NR for this feature
Where is Infra found in DD and NR

## Get started with New Relic infrasctructure monitoring
How do I migrate/install Infra

Don't forget a screenshot or two!

Remove DD at the end

<SideBySide>
    <Side>
        <DocTiles variant="labs">
            <DocTile
                path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-from-dd/"
                label={{text: '⬅️ PREVIOUS', color: '#AFE2E3'}}    
            >
                Return to the overview
            </DocTile>
        </DocTiles>
    </Side>
    <Side>
        <DocTiles variant="labs">
            <DocTile
                path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-apm/"
                label={{text: 'NEXT ➡️', color: '#AFE2E3'}}    
            >
                See how to migrate APM monitoring from Datadog
            </DocTile>
        </DocTiles>
    </Side>
</SideBySide>

Commit message:

fix(Sonic): Adding in more outline info from looking at our internal docs

src/content/docs/journey-migration/migrating-infra.mdx, after:

---
title: "Get started with infrastructure monitoring"
tags:
- Learning paths
- Customer experience
- Datadog
- Migration
metaDescription: "How to migrate your infrastructure monitoring from Datadog to New Relic."
---

import journeyAbnormalLCP from 'images/browser_screenshot-crop_LCP-abnormal.png'

Intro - Why you should migrate Infrastructure from NR to DD.
* We have quickstart options for infra (recommended) and non-quickstart options 
* New Relic has a robust monitoring system through apps, but setting up infrastructure gives you insight into (infra stuff)
* Quick bullet list of capabilities and strengths of Infra monitoring (no "sales" language or tone)
* Add a dashboard and an alert using the quickstarts if possible

Screenshot goes here

## Compare infrastructure monitoring 
List the competitive differences between DD and NR for this feature
Where is Infra found in DD and NR

## Get started with New Relic infrasctructure monitoring
How do I migrate/install Infra using the quickstart path
Link to further documentation for more granular setup instructions

Don't forget a screenshot or two!

Remove DD at the end

<SideBySide>
    <Side>
        <DocTiles variant="labs">
            <DocTile
                path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-from-dd/"
                label={{text: '⬅️ PREVIOUS', color: '#AFE2E3'}}    
            >
                Return to the overview
            </DocTile>
        </DocTiles>
    </Side>
    <Side>
        <DocTiles variant="labs">
            <DocTile
                path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-apm/"
                label={{text: 'NEXT ➡️', color: '#AFE2E3'}}    
            >
                See how to migrate APM monitoring from Datadog
            </DocTile>
        </DocTiles>
    </Side>
</SideBySide>
