src/content/docs/journey-migration/migrating-dashboards.mdx, before:

---
title: "Migrating UX monitoring"
tags:
- Learning paths
- Customer experience
- Datadog
- Latency
metaDescription: "How to migrate your UX monitoring from Datadog to New Relic."
---

import journeyAbnormalLCP from 'images/browser_screenshot-crop_LCP-abnormal.png'

Intro - Why you should migrate UX monitoring from NR to DD. Brief overview of migrating. Remember that UX in Datadog is multiple New Relic features (browser, synthetics, RUM)

Screenshot goes here

## Compare log monitoring 
List the competitive differences between DD and NR for this feature
Where is this feature found in DD and NR

## Get started with New Relic log monitoring
How do I migrate/install this feature

Don't forget a screenshot or two!

Remove DD at the end

<SideBySide>
    <Side>
        <DocTiles variant="labs">
            <DocTile
                path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-logs/"
                label={{text: '⬅️ PREVIOUS', color: '#AFE2E3'}}    
            >
                See how to migrate log monitoring from Datadog
            </DocTile>
        </DocTiles>
    </Side>
    <Side>
        <DocTiles variant="labs">
            <DocTile
                path="/docs/journey-migration/making-the-switch/"
                label={{text: 'NEXT ➡️', color: '#AFE2E3'}}    
            >
                See how to make a full migration from Datadog 
            </DocTile>
        </DocTiles>
    </Side>
</SideBySide>

Commit message:

fix(Sonic): Adding in more outline info from looking at our internal docs

src/content/docs/journey-migration/migrating-dashboards.mdx, after:

---
title: "Create alerts and dashboards"
tags:
- Learning paths
- Customer experience
- Datadog
- Latency
metaDescription: "How to migrate your UX monitoring from Datadog to New Relic."
---

import journeyAbnormalLCP from 'images/browser_screenshot-crop_LCP-abnormal.png'

Intro - "Now that you've instrumented monitoring for infrastructure, applications, and logs, you can create dashboards and alerts to help you see the data you need when you need to see it."

Talk about the power of alerts and the flexibility of dashboards. Enforce that you can customize both to get what you need from your data without having to constantly search for things. Push convenience and ease of use once set up.

* We offer customers multiple methods to enhance alerts while reducing alert fatigue. New Relic’s alerting allows customers to address dynamic abnormalities with an out-of-the-box guided alert setup.
* New Relic provides a proactive issue awareness solution that leverages AI and ML capabilities to provide continuous,automatic anomaly detection as part of the core platform.

Screenshot goes here

## Compare dashboards and alerts between DD and NR for these features
Where is this feature found in DD and NR

## Create dashboards and alerts
How do I create dashboards?
How do I create alerts?

Do we want to keep the quickstart theme with this topic? Do we want to go a little more in depth and create ones from scratch? Do we want to do both?

Don't forget a screenshot or two!

Remove DD at the end

<SideBySide>
    <Side>
        <DocTiles variant="labs">
            <DocTile
                path="/docs/journey-migration/migrating-logs/"
                label={{text: '⬅️ PREVIOUS', color: '#AFE2E3'}}    
            >
                See how to migrate log monitoring from Datadog
            </DocTile>
        </DocTiles>
    </Side>
    <Side>
        <DocTiles variant="labs">
            <DocTile
                path="/docs/journey-migration/making-the-switch/"
                label={{text: 'NEXT ➡️', color: '#AFE2E3'}}    
            >
                See how to make a full migration from Datadog 
            </DocTile>
        </DocTiles>
    </Side>
</SideBySide>
