src/content/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-how-nrql-works.mdx, before:

---
title: "How to use NRQL: the mechanics of querying"
tags:
  - Query your data
  - 'NRQL: New Relic query language'
  - Get started
translate:
  - jp
  - kr
metaDescription: "Learn how to query with NRQL, NRQL syntax, and how you can explore your data."
redirects:
---

import queriesnrqlEventDefinitionsQueryBuilder from 'images/queries-nrql_screenshot-crop_event-definitions-query-builder.png'

import queriesnrqlAttributeDefinitionsQueryBuilder from 'images/queries-nrql_screenshot-crop_attribute-definitions-query-builder.png'

import queriesnrqlViewQueryforChart from 'images/queries-nrql_screenshot-crop_view-query-for-chart.png'

import queriesnrqlNrqlExampleTimeseries from 'images/queries-nrql_screenshot-crop_nrql-example-timeseries.png'

import queriesNrqlBasicExample from 'images/queries-nrql_screenshot-crop_basic-nrql-query-example.png'

Before using any tool, it's best to know how to use it. There's a process to creating, structuring, and writing queries with NRQL. Understanding the rules of querying with NRQL enables you to get the most from your data. Even if you've never queried anything before, just a basic understanding the rules allows you to access (almost) any data you need and visualize them in [charts](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/use-charts/use-your-charts) and [dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards).

## NRQL syntax [#syntax]

If you're already familiar with SQL queries, you'll be happy to know that NRQL has a lot of similarities. Here's a quick breakdown of the structure of a NRQL query:

```sql
<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#state-select">SELECT</a> <a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#functions">function(attribute)</a> [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-as">AS</a> 'label'][, ...] 
  <a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-from">FROM</a> data type
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-where">WHERE</a> attribute [comparison] [AND|OR ...]][AS 'label'][, ...]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-facet">FACET</a> attribute | function(attribute)]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-limit">LIMIT</a> number]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-since">SINCE</a> time]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-until">UNTIL</a> time]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-timezone">WITH TIMEZONE</a> timezone]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-compare">COMPARE WITH</a> time]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-timeseries">TIMESERIES</a> time]
```

NRQL's basic rules are as follows:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        **NRQL condition**
      </th>

      <th>
        Details
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Required values
      </td>

      <td>
        The [`SELECT`](#state-select) clause and [`FROM`](#sel-from) clause are required. All other clauses are optional. You can start your query with either `SELECT` or `FROM`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Query string size
      </td>

      <td>
        The query string must be less than 4 KB.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Case sensitivity
      </td>

      <td>
        * The data type names and attribute names are case sensitive.
        * [NRQL clauses](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#clauses) and [functions](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#functions) are not case sensitive.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Syntax for strings
      </td>

      <td>
        NRQL uses single quotes to designate strings. For example:

        ```sql
        ... where traceId = '030a573f0df02c57'
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Non-standard custom event and attribute names
      </td>

      <td>
        Events that we report by default have names that contain alphanumeric characters, colons (`:`), and underscores (`_`). Attribute names can have those characters and periods (`.`). Default-reported names start with a letter. Custom names that don't follow these guidelines must be enclosed with backticks in NRQL queries. For example:

        ```sql
        ... FACET `Logged-in user`
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Data type coercion
      </td>

      <td>
        We don't support data type "coercion." For more information, see [Data type conversion](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference/nrql-syntax-components-functions#type-conversion).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Use of math functions
      </td>

      <td>
        [Basic and advanced math functions](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/using-nrql/nrql-math-using-select) are supported in the [`SELECT`](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#state-select) statement.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Subqueries
      </td>

      <td>
        NRQL supports [subqueries](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/subqueries-in-nrql).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `JOIN` clauses
      </td>

      <td>
        NRQL does not have the equivalent of the SQL `JOIN` clause, but you can [simulate a `JOIN` with custom attributes](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/simulate-sql-join-functions-insights).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

These are the basic rules for NRQL, and we have more information in our [NRQL reference](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/) to help you build your queries.

## Data exploration [#explore-data]

One of the best ways to learn how to use NRQL is to access a New Relic [query tool](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language#where) and use it to explore your data. Here's an example of exploring your data using the [query builder](/docs/chart-builder/use-chart-builder/get-started/introduction-chart-builder) and the suggested entries from the interface. 

<Callout variant="tip">
Don't be afraid to play with your data! You won't break anything using any of our query interfaces, so feel free to explore early and often!
</Callout>

The query begins with `FROM` followed by space. The interface suggests available types of data, and `Transaction` is chosen from that list.

<img
  title="nrql_query01.png"
  alt="A screenshot of a NRQL query beginning with From"
  src={queriesnrqlEventDefinitionsQueryBuilder}
/>

Next, an [attribute](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#attribute) is chosen using `SELECT`, and the query looks as follows:

```sql
FROM Transaction SELECT
```

Pressing space again causes the interface to suggest available attributes. In the example below, `appId` is chosen.

<img
  title="nrql_query02.png"
  alt="A screenshot of a NRQL query using the previous screenshot and adding Select"
  src={queriesnrqlAttributeDefinitionsQueryBuilder}
/>

The result is a very basic NRQL query using the required clause and statement (`FROM` and `SELECT`), and it provides a list of APM transactions and the associated `appId` for each, as shown below.

<img
  title="basic_nrql_example.png"
  alt="A screenshot of a basic NRQL query, From Transaction Select appId"
  src={queriesNrqlBasicExample}
/>

Another great way to explore your data is to go into any existing dashboards you have, click **View query**, and run your chart in the query builder.
<img
  title="new-relic-view-chart-nrql-query.png"
  alt="New Relic view chart NRQL query"
  src={queriesnrqlViewQueryforChart}
/>

<figcaption>
  Charts built with NRQL will have **View query** as an option. You can then edit and customize that query to see how your changes affect the resulting visualization.
</figcaption>

## NRQL query examples [#examples]

Here's an example of a slightly more in-depth NRQL query of `Transaction` data, which is reported by [APM](/docs/apm). For this query:
* `Transaction` is the chosen data type 
* `Select` is used to determine the average duration
* Results are grouped by appName using `Facet`
* `Timeseries` is used to display the data over an automated timespan.


```sql
FROM Transaction 
SELECT average(duration) 
  FACET appName 
  TIMESERIES auto
```

This would generate a chart that looks like:

<img
  title="nrql_example.png"
  alt="nrql_example.png"
  src={queriesnrqlNrqlExampleTimeseries}
/>

Here are some more query examples:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="basic-browser-nrql"
    title="Basic NRQL query of browser data"
  >
    Here's a NRQL query of `PageView` data from [browser monitoring](/docs/browser).

    ```sql
    SELECT uniqueCount(user) FROM PageView 
      WHERE userAgentOS = 'Mac' 
      FACET countryCode
      SINCE 1 day ago 
      LIMIT 20
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="attribute-with-space"
    title="Attribute name with a space in it"
  >
    If a [custom attribute](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/decorating-events/insights-custom-attributes) name has a space in it, use backticks around the attribute name:

    ```sql
    SELECT count(*)
     FROM Transaction
     FACET `Logged-in user`
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="query-multiple-events-columns"
    title="Querying multiple data sources"
  >
    To return data from two data sources, separate their data types with a comma. For example, this query returns a count of all [APM transactions](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/decorating-events/insights-attributes#transaction-defaults) and [browser events](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/decorating-events/insights-attributes#browser-defaults) over the last three days:

    ```sql
    SELECT count(*) FROM Transaction, PageView SINCE 3 days ago
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id=""
    title="Query returning multiple columns"
  >
    To return multiple columns from a dataset, separate the aggregator arguments with a comma:

    ```sql
    SELECT function(attribute), function(attribute) ...
      FROM ...
    ```

    This query returns the minimum, average, and maximum duration for browser monitoring `PageView` events over the last week:

    ```sql
    SELECT min(duration), max(duration), average(duration)
      FROM PageView SINCE 1 week ago
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

<Callout variant="important">
  To explore your data without having to use NRQL, use the [metrics and events data explorer](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/browse-data/introduction-data-explorer/). Learn more about [querying data in New Relic](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/).
</Callout> 

Ready to learn more? Be sure to check out our [introduction to NRQL](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language/) if you haven't already, or learn [how to use charts and dashboards with NRQL](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/charts-and-dashboards-with-nrql/). If you want to start using NRQL right away, jump straight into our [guided NRQL tutorial](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-tutorial/).

Commit message:

new(NRQL comments): new docs, & link

src/content/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-how-nrql-works.mdx, after:

---
title: "How to use NRQL: the mechanics of querying"
tags:
  - Query your data
  - 'NRQL: New Relic query language'
  - Get started
translate:
  - jp
  - kr
metaDescription: "Learn how to query with NRQL, NRQL syntax, and how you can explore your data."
redirects:
---

import queriesnrqlEventDefinitionsQueryBuilder from 'images/queries-nrql_screenshot-crop_event-definitions-query-builder.png'

import queriesnrqlAttributeDefinitionsQueryBuilder from 'images/queries-nrql_screenshot-crop_attribute-definitions-query-builder.png'

import queriesnrqlViewQueryforChart from 'images/queries-nrql_screenshot-crop_view-query-for-chart.png'

import queriesnrqlNrqlExampleTimeseries from 'images/queries-nrql_screenshot-crop_nrql-example-timeseries.png'

import queriesNrqlBasicExample from 'images/queries-nrql_screenshot-crop_basic-nrql-query-example.png'

Before using any tool, it's best to know how to use it. There's a process to creating, structuring, and writing queries with NRQL. Understanding the rules of querying with NRQL enables you to get the most from your data. Even if you've never queried anything before, just a basic understanding the rules allows you to access (almost) any data you need and visualize them in [charts](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/use-charts/use-your-charts) and [dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards).

## NRQL syntax [#syntax]

If you're already familiar with SQL queries, you'll be happy to know that NRQL has a lot of similarities. Here's a quick breakdown of the structure of a NRQL query:

```sql
<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#state-select">SELECT</a> <a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#functions">function(attribute)</a> [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-as">AS</a> 'label'][, ...] 
  <a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-from">FROM</a> data type
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-where">WHERE</a> attribute [comparison] [AND|OR ...]][AS 'label'][, ...]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-facet">FACET</a> attribute | function(attribute)]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-limit">LIMIT</a> number]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-since">SINCE</a> time]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-until">UNTIL</a> time]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-timezone">WITH TIMEZONE</a> timezone]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-compare">COMPARE WITH</a> time]
  [<a href="/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#sel-timeseries">TIMESERIES</a> time]
```

NRQL's basic rules are as follows:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        **NRQL condition**
      </th>

      <th>
        Details
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Required values
      </td>

      <td>
        The [`SELECT`](#state-select) clause and [`FROM`](#sel-from) clause are required. All other clauses are optional. You can start your query with either `SELECT` or `FROM`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Query string size
      </td>

      <td>
        The query string must be less than 4 KB.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Case sensitivity
      </td>

      <td>
        * The data type names and attribute names are case sensitive.
        * [NRQL clauses](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#clauses) and [functions](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#functions) are not case sensitive.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Syntax for strings
      </td>

      <td>
        NRQL uses single quotes to designate strings. For example:

        ```sql
        ... where traceId = '030a573f0df02c57'
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Non-standard custom event and attribute names
      </td>

      <td>
        Events that we report by default have names that contain alphanumeric characters, colons (`:`), and underscores (`_`). Attribute names can have those characters and periods (`.`). Default-reported names start with a letter. Custom names that don't follow these guidelines must be enclosed with backticks in NRQL queries. For example:

        ```sql
        ... FACET `Logged-in user`
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Data type coercion
      </td>

      <td>
        We don't support data type "coercion." For more information, see [Data type conversion](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference/nrql-syntax-components-functions#type-conversion).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Use of math functions
      </td>

      <td>
        [Basic and advanced math functions](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/using-nrql/nrql-math-using-select) are supported in the [`SELECT`](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/nrql-reference#state-select) statement.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Subqueries
      </td>

      <td>
        NRQL supports [subqueries](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/subqueries-in-nrql).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `JOIN` clauses
      </td>

      <td>
        NRQL does not have the equivalent of the SQL `JOIN` clause, but you can [simulate a `JOIN` with custom attributes](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/using-new-relic-query-language/simulate-sql-join-functions-insights).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

These are the basic rules for NRQL, and we have more information in our [NRQL reference](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/) to help you build your queries.

## Data exploration [#explore-data]

One of the best ways to learn how to use NRQL is to access a New Relic [query tool](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language#where) and use it to explore your data. Here's an example of exploring your data using the [query builder](/docs/chart-builder/use-chart-builder/get-started/introduction-chart-builder) and the suggested entries from the interface. 

<Callout variant="tip">
Don't be afraid to play with your data! You won't break anything using any of our query interfaces, so feel free to explore early and often!
</Callout>

The query begins with `FROM` followed by space. The interface suggests available types of data, and `Transaction` is chosen from that list.

<img
  title="nrql_query01.png"
  alt="A screenshot of a NRQL query beginning with From"
  src={queriesnrqlEventDefinitionsQueryBuilder}
/>

Next, an [attribute](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#attribute) is chosen using `SELECT`, and the query looks as follows:

```sql
FROM Transaction SELECT
```

Pressing space again causes the interface to suggest available attributes. In the example below, `appId` is chosen.

<img
  title="nrql_query02.png"
  alt="A screenshot of a NRQL query using the previous screenshot and adding Select"
  src={queriesnrqlAttributeDefinitionsQueryBuilder}
/>

The result is a very basic NRQL query using the required clause and statement (`FROM` and `SELECT`), and it provides a list of APM transactions and the associated `appId` for each, as shown below.

<img
  title="basic_nrql_example.png"
  alt="A screenshot of a basic NRQL query, From Transaction Select appId"
  src={queriesNrqlBasicExample}
/>

Another great way to explore your data is to go into any existing dashboards you have, click **View query**, and run your chart in the query builder.
<img
  title="new-relic-view-chart-nrql-query.png"
  alt="New Relic view chart NRQL query"
  src={queriesnrqlViewQueryforChart}
/>

<figcaption>
  Charts built with NRQL will have **View query** as an option. You can then edit and customize that query to see how your changes affect the resulting visualization.
</figcaption>

## Comments [#comments]

When writing a NRQL query, you can add comments to a line or section of text. Comments can help your team members better understand and use the queries you make. 

Here are syntax details: 

* `--` Two dashes will comment out all text to the right of this indicator on the same line.
* `//` Two slashes will comment out all text to the right of this indicator on the same line.
* `/*  */` Any text in between these character sets will be commented out. This indicator can apply to multiple lines.

Note that comments aren't displayed everywhere. Some views, like "recent queries" and "view query," won't show comments. 

Some example queries that include comments:  

```
FROM Transaction SELECT uniqueCount(appId) -- This will return the number of unique App IDs
```

```
FROM TransactionError
SELECT count(*) SINCE 1 day ago // Transaction Error for the past day
```

```
FROM TransactionTrace /* This data may be incomplete; 
If so, run a query of Transaction */
SELECT count(*)
```

## NRQL query examples [#examples]

Here's an example of a slightly more in-depth NRQL query of `Transaction` data, which is reported by [APM](/docs/apm). For this query:
* `Transaction` is the chosen data type 
* `Select` is used to determine the average duration
* Results are grouped by appName using `Facet`
* `Timeseries` is used to display the data over an automated timespan.


```sql
FROM Transaction 
SELECT average(duration) 
  FACET appName 
  TIMESERIES auto
```

This would generate a chart that looks like:

<img
  title="nrql_example.png"
  alt="nrql_example.png"
  src={queriesnrqlNrqlExampleTimeseries}
/>

Here are some more query examples:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="basic-browser-nrql"
    title="Basic NRQL query of browser data"
  >
    Here's a NRQL query of `PageView` data from [browser monitoring](/docs/browser).

    ```sql
    SELECT uniqueCount(user) FROM PageView 
      WHERE userAgentOS = 'Mac' 
      FACET countryCode
      SINCE 1 day ago 
      LIMIT 20
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="attribute-with-space"
    title="Attribute name with a space in it"
  >
    If a [custom attribute](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/decorating-events/insights-custom-attributes) name has a space in it, use backticks around the attribute name:

    ```sql
    SELECT count(*)
     FROM Transaction
     FACET `Logged-in user`
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="query-multiple-events-columns"
    title="Querying multiple data sources"
  >
    To return data from two data sources, separate their data types with a comma. For example, this query returns a count of all [APM transactions](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/decorating-events/insights-attributes#transaction-defaults) and [browser events](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/decorating-events/insights-attributes#browser-defaults) over the last three days:

    ```sql
    SELECT count(*) FROM Transaction, PageView SINCE 3 days ago
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id=""
    title="Query returning multiple columns"
  >
    To return multiple columns from a dataset, separate the aggregator arguments with a comma:

    ```sql
    SELECT function(attribute), function(attribute) ...
      FROM ...
    ```

    This query returns the minimum, average, and maximum duration for browser monitoring `PageView` events over the last week:

    ```sql
    SELECT min(duration), max(duration), average(duration)
      FROM PageView SINCE 1 week ago
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

<Callout variant="important">
  To explore your data without having to use NRQL, use the [metrics and events data explorer](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/browse-data/introduction-data-explorer/). Learn more about [querying data in New Relic](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/).
</Callout> 

Ready to learn more? Be sure to check out our [introduction to NRQL](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language/) if you haven't already, or learn [how to use charts and dashboards with NRQL](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/charts-and-dashboards-with-nrql/). If you want to start using NRQL right away, jump straight into our [guided NRQL tutorial](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-tutorial/).
