src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing.mdx, before:

---
title: "Billable users: Billing and rules"
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - New Relic pricing and billing
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: "For New Relic pricing, an explanation of how billable users are calculated and rules for downgrading users."
---

On [our pricing model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing), the count of billable users is a billing factor. 

## What is a billable user? [#billable-users]

Billable users are users with a [user type](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type) of either core user or full platform user. Basic users are free. 

Other details about what makes a user billable: 
* For users on our [newer user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/overview-user-models): users are billable when they're added as billable users to a New Relic organization. Even if a billable user has never logged in to New Relic and has a `Pending invite` tag in the UI, they're still billable.
* For our [primary user billing version](#pricing-versions): there's a per-month charge for a billable user, and no pro-rating. This means that whether you keep a user as a billable user type for an entire month or only a minute during that month, it costs the same. [Learn more about user calculations.](#user-count)   
* Our [Standard edition](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/#editions) comes with one free full platform user.  

## View users in the UI [#ui]

For how to see your billable user count in the UI, see [Billing-related UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings). If your organization contains multiple accounts, you must be in the primary reporting account (typically the first account created in your organization) to see all users in your organization. 

For how to manage users in the UI, see [User management](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-ui-and-tasks). 

## Versions of user billing [#pricing-versions]

There are two versions of how we bill for users: 

* **Primary user billing version.** This is our newer version: it bills based on the total number of billable users in a month. This is the version all newly created New Relic organizations have, and is the version your organization probably has. 
* **Original user billing version.** This is our older version, which some organizations still have. 

Which version your organization has governs how user billing works and some user downgrade rules. These rules are covered in more detail below. 

Not sure which version you're on? Here are some tips:

* On the **Plan summary** page in the [billing UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/billing-ui), if you see `monthly provisioned users`, you're on the original version. 
* On your invoice, if you see `New Relic One - Pro Users` or `New Relic One - Enterprise Users`, you're on the original version. If that includes a user type (like `New Relic - Pro Full Platform Users`, you're on the newer version. 

## Primary user billing version [#primary-version]

You can use the [usage UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings/#pricing) to get an overview of your billable user count. If you need more detail than the UI provides, you can also run [usage-related NRQL queries](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/usage-queries-alerts).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="user-count"
    title="How billable users are counted"
  >

<Callout variant="important">
  These rules apply for organizations on our [primary user billing version](#pricing-versions).
</Callout>

To determine an organization's count of billable users in a calendar month, we count the users during that month who had a **billable user type** of either full platform user or core user. A user's **billable user type** is defined as the highest user type at which a user was set during a calendar month. We use UTC timezone to define the start and end of a calendar month.

For an example of how this works in practice: If a user is set as a full platform user at any point during a calendar month, their billable user type for that month is "full platform user," and won't change, even if they downgrade later that month. This is the case even if that user is changed to a full platform user only briefly.

If you're planning on adding billable users or changing your users' user type, you should keep these rules in mind. Some tips:

* If you want to add a billable user or upgrade a user, you might choose to do that at the beginning of the month.
* If you want to downgrade a user, you might choose to do that at the end of the month.

The count of your unique users is determined by email address. If there are multiple user records in an organization that have the same email address, for billing purposes those user records would count as a single user, and that user's billable user type would be their highest user type assigned during that month.

For users on our [newer user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/overview-user-models): users are billable when they're added by admins as billable users. Even if a billable user has never logged in to New Relic and has a `Pending invite` tag in the UI, they're still billable. (For users on our [original user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/users-roles-original-user-model), `Pending invite` users are not billable.)

For more on adding and inviting users, see [Add users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-ui-and-tasks#add-users). 

The cost of your billable users depends on an organization's [pricing edition](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/#editions) (Standard, Pro, or Enterprise), or on any custom deal you might have with New Relic.

When a New Relic organization first starts being billed, their billable user count is pro-rated based on when during the month they started. If an organization cancels their subscription, prorating is also applied for their last month.
  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="user-downgrade-rules"
    title="User downgrade rules"
  >

<Callout variant="important">
  These rules apply for organizations on our [primary user billing version](#pricing-versions).
</Callout>

The rules pertaining to how many times you can downgrade full platform users differ depending on whether your [usage plan](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing#usage-plans) is pay-as-you-go or a commitment contract. 

#### Pay-as-you-go downgrade rules

For the [pay-as-you-go usage plan](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing#usage-plans), there are no rules limiting the downgrading of users but the [billing impacts](#user-count) may impact when you decide to upgrade or downgrade users.

#### Commitment contract downgrade rules 

Before upgrading or downgrading a user, ensure you understand the [billing impacts](#user-count).

For [commitment contracts](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/#usage-plans), there are rules regarding how many times a user can be downgraded from being a full platform user to a lower user type. (There are no rules regarding how often users change between core user and basic user.)

During a New Relic organization's contract year (defined below), if a full platform user is changed to a lower user type and back to a full platform user twice, that user will be billed as a full platform user for the remainder of that contract year, regardless of user type adjustments.

A contract year is defined as a year starting at your contract's starting point, or at the anniversary of that point. If your organization started out on a different pricing plan and switched to this version of pricing, the user type downgrade rule will apply from when you opted in until the renewal of your subscription term or, if applicable, the annual anniversary date of your commitment term, whichever is earlier.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Tiered pricing [#tiered-pricing]

Some organizations have access to tiered pricing for billable users. For details on that, see [Tiered pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing#tiered-pricing).

## Original user billing version [#original-version]

Here are details about our [original user billing version](#pricing-versions):

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="original-user-count"
    title="How billable users are counted"
  >
The following rules apply only for organizations on the original [user billing version](#pricing-versions):

* **How billable users are determined.** For a calendar month, an organization is billed based on a calculation of the number of billable users for that month.
* **Prorating in first and last month.** The count of billable users is prorated based on when a New Relic organization starts their subscription, or based on when a user becomes a monthly provisioned user (added as a monthly provisioned user or converted to one).
* **Users are billable when provisioned.** A user counts as billable the moment they are set to a billable user type in New Relic. This applies regardless of whether that user has ever logged into or used New Relic.
* **User count based on email address.** If there are multiple user records in an organization that have the same email address, for billing purposes that would count as a single user.
* **Caveat for our original user model.** If your organization has users on our [original user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/overview-user-models): If a user is set as a basic user in one account in the organization and as a billable user in another account, the billable user status takes precedence.
</Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="original-user-downgrade-rules"
    title="User downgrade rules"
  >
The following user downgrade rules apply for organizations on the [original user billing version](#pricing-versions):

User type is meant to be a fairly long-term setting based on a user's expected New Relic duties and responsibilities. For that reason, a monthly provisioned user may only be downgraded a maximum of two times in a 12-month period. If a user's user type has changed more than this allowed number of changes, New Relic can charge that user as a monthly provisioned user.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

Commit message:

fix(billable users): downgrade rules clarify

src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing.mdx, after:

---
title: "Billable users: Billing and rules"
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - New Relic pricing and billing
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: "For New Relic pricing, an explanation of how billable users are calculated and rules for downgrading users."
---

On [our pricing model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing), the count of billable users is a billing factor. 

## What is a billable user? [#billable-users]

Billable users are users with a [user type](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type) of either core user or full platform user. Basic users are free. 

Other details about what makes a user billable: 
* For users on our [newer user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/overview-user-models): users are billable when they're added as billable users to a New Relic organization. Even if a billable user has never logged in to New Relic and has a `Pending invite` tag in the UI, they're still billable.
* For our [primary user billing version](#pricing-versions): there's a per-month charge for a billable user, and no pro-rating. This means that whether you keep a user as a billable user type for an entire month or only a minute during that month, it costs the same. [Learn more about user calculations.](#user-count)   
* Our [Standard edition](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/#editions) comes with one free full platform user.  

## View users in the UI [#ui]

For how to see your billable user count in the UI, see [Billing-related UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings). If your organization contains multiple accounts, you must be in the primary reporting account (typically the first account created in your organization) to see all users in your organization. 

For how to manage users in the UI, see [User management](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-ui-and-tasks). 

## Versions of user billing [#pricing-versions]

There are two versions of how we bill for users: 

* **Primary user billing version.** This is our newer version: it bills based on the total number of billable users in a month. This is the version all newly created New Relic organizations have, and is the version your organization probably has. 
* **Original user billing version.** This is our older version, which some organizations still have. 

Which version your organization has governs how user billing works and some user downgrade rules. These rules are covered in more detail below. 

Not sure which version you're on? Here are some tips:

* On the **Plan summary** page in the [billing UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/billing-ui), if you see `monthly provisioned users`, you're on the original version. 
* On your invoice, if you see `New Relic One - Pro Users` or `New Relic One - Enterprise Users`, you're on the original version. If that includes a user type (like `New Relic - Pro Full Platform Users`, you're on the newer version. 

## Primary user billing version [#primary-version]

You can use the [usage UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings/#pricing) to get an overview of your billable user count. If you need more detail than the UI provides, you can also run [usage-related NRQL queries](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/usage-queries-alerts).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="user-count"
    title="How billable users are counted"
  >

<Callout variant="important">
  These rules apply for organizations on our [primary user billing version](#pricing-versions).
</Callout>

To determine an organization's count of billable users in a calendar month, we count the users during that month who had a **billable user type** of either full platform user or core user. A user's **billable user type** is defined as the highest user type at which a user was set during a calendar month. We use UTC timezone to define the start and end of a calendar month.

For an example of how this works in practice: If a user is set as a full platform user at any point during a calendar month, their billable user type for that month is "full platform user," and won't change, even if they downgrade later that month. This is the case even if that user is changed to a full platform user only briefly.

If you're planning on adding billable users or changing your users' user type, you should keep these rules in mind. Some tips:

* If you want to add a billable user or upgrade a user, you might choose to do that at the beginning of the month.
* If you want to downgrade a user, you might choose to do that at the end of the month.

The count of your unique users is determined by email address. If there are multiple user records in an organization that have the same email address, for billing purposes those user records would count as a single user, and that user's billable user type would be their highest user type assigned during that month.

For users on our [newer user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/overview-user-models): users are billable when they're added by admins as billable users. Even if a billable user has never logged in to New Relic and has a `Pending invite` tag in the UI, they're still billable. (For users on our [original user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/users-roles-original-user-model), `Pending invite` users are not billable.)

For more on adding and inviting users, see [Add users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-ui-and-tasks#add-users). 

The cost of your billable users depends on an organization's [pricing edition](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/#editions) (Standard, Pro, or Enterprise), or on any custom deal you might have with New Relic.

When a New Relic organization first starts being billed, their billable user count is pro-rated based on when during the month they started. If an organization cancels their subscription, prorating is also applied for their last month.
  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="user-downgrade-rules"
    title="User downgrade rules"
  >

<Callout variant="important">
  These rules apply for organizations on our [primary user billing version](#pricing-versions).
</Callout>

The rules pertaining to how many times you can downgrade full platform users differ depending on whether your [usage plan](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing#usage-plans) is pay-as-you-go or a commitment contract. 

### Pay-as-you-go downgrade rules

For the [pay-as-you-go usage plan](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing#usage-plans), there are no rules limiting the downgrading of users but the [billing impacts](#user-count) may impact when you decide to upgrade or downgrade users.

### Commitment contract downgrade rules 

Before upgrading or downgrading a user, ensure you understand the [billing impacts](#user-count).

For [commitment contracts](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/#usage-plans), there are rules regarding how many times a user can be downgraded from being a full platform user to a lower user type. (There are no rules regarding how often users change between core user and basic user.)

**Limit on toggling full platform users:** In this context, "toggling" is defined as a full platform user being downgraded, or deleted, in one month and then being added back in a later month as a full platform user. During a New Relic organization's contract year (defined below), you may toggle a full platform user only once. If a full platform user is toggled more than once, they'll be counted as a full platform user for the remainder of the contract year, regardless of user type adjustments.

A contract year is defined as a year starting at your contract's starting point, or at the anniversary of that point. If your organization started out on a different pricing plan and switched to this version of pricing, the user type downgrade rule will apply from when you opted in until the renewal of your subscription term or, if applicable, the annual anniversary date of your commitment term, whichever is earlier.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Tiered pricing [#tiered-pricing]

Some organizations have access to tiered pricing for billable users. For details on that, see [Tiered pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing#tiered-pricing).

## Original user billing version [#original-version]

Here are details about our [original user billing version](#pricing-versions):

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="original-user-count"
    title="How billable users are counted"
  >
The following rules apply only for organizations on the original [user billing version](#pricing-versions):

* **How billable users are determined.** For a calendar month, an organization is billed based on a calculation of the number of billable users for that month.
* **Prorating in first and last month.** The count of billable users is prorated based on when a New Relic organization starts their subscription, or based on when a user becomes a monthly provisioned user (added as a monthly provisioned user or converted to one).
* **Users are billable when provisioned.** A user counts as billable the moment they are set to a billable user type in New Relic. This applies regardless of whether that user has ever logged into or used New Relic.
* **User count based on email address.** If there are multiple user records in an organization that have the same email address, for billing purposes that would count as a single user.
* **Caveat for our original user model.** If your organization has users on our [original user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/overview-user-models): If a user is set as a basic user in one account in the organization and as a billable user in another account, the billable user status takes precedence.
</Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="original-user-downgrade-rules"
    title="User downgrade rules"
  >
The following user downgrade rules apply for organizations on the [original user billing version](#pricing-versions):

User type is meant to be a fairly long-term setting based on a user's expected New Relic duties and responsibilities. For that reason, a monthly provisioned user may only be downgraded a maximum of two times in a 12-month period. If a user's user type has changed more than this allowed number of changes, New Relic can charge that user as a monthly provisioned user.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>
