src/content/docs/style-guide/writing-docs/processes-procedures/create-edit-content.mdx, before:

---
title: Create and edit content
contentType: page
template: basicDoc
topics:
  - Basic style guide
  - Writing guidelines
redirects:
  - >-
    /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/processes-and-procedures/creating-and-editing-content
  - >-
    /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/processes-procedures/creating-editing-content
  - >-
    /docs/new-relic-only/basic-style-guide/basic-style-guide/creating-editing-content
  - /docs/new-relic-only/basic-style-guide/basic-style-guide/create-edit-content
  - /docs/style-guide/writing-guidelines/create-edit-content
---

We welcome your contributions, whether you are a New Relic employee or a New Relic user! And we don't want you to worry about style. When you edit a file, tech writers on our team review it for style, grammar, and formatting. That said, if you're curious about our style guidelines, you're welcome (but not obligated) [to take a look](/docs/style-guide/get-started/introduction-style-guide/).

## Edit a doc [#edit-doc]

If you see a minor problem in our documentation that you want to quickly fix, you can use GitHub to edit the file and submit your pull request. A member of the Docs team will review your edit and publish your changes. We'll follow up with you if we have any questions.

To edit existing content without building the site locally:

1. On the docs site, navigate to the doc you'd like to edit.
2. Click **Edit page** on the top corner of the right nav.
3. A GitHub page will open with the source of the doc. Click the **pencil** icon in the top right.
4. Make your edits (don't worry too much about formatting or grammar, we're happy to take care of that).
5. At the bottom of the page, enter a commit message that describes your change, then click **Commit changes**.
6. Follow the prompts to submit your pull request.

A member of the Docs team will review your pull request and comment with any feedback. Once we've merged your pull request into the **Develop** branch, your changes will go live with our next release (usually within a few hours).

If you'd like to go deeper with development, see our [Contributors guide](https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#editing-existing-pages) for information on how to fork our site, build it locally, and submit pull requests.

## Clone (copy) an existing doc [#clone-doc]

Once you've cloned the `docs-website` repository, use your text editor to copy an existing doc. Rename and edit the copy and then save it as a new doc. Your cloned doc automatically inherits the original doc's frontmatter content. Make sure to change that, too.

If you want your cloned doc to be translated, follow standard procedures to [request translation](/docs/style-guide/writing-guidelines/docs-translation#request-translation).

## Create new docs [#creating-docs]

You can use [article templates](/docs/style-guide/article-templates) or [clone an existing doc](#clone-doc) as a template. To create a new doc:

1. Clone the repo on your computer.
2. In `/src/content/docs/`, find a good location for your doc.
3. Using your text editor, create a new `.mdx` file or copy an existing doc.
4. Write your content.
5. Optional: [Add your doc to the right nav `.yml` file](/docs/style-guide/processes-procedures/understand-edit-docs-site-structure/). The navigation files can be a bit hard to work with, so feel free to leave this step for a Docs writer to handle when they review your pull request.
6. Commit your changes and create a pull request.

The Tech Docs team has two heroes watching for new pull requests. We'll help you get the content finalized and make sure that it's in the right place.

## For bigger projects [#bigger-projects]

If you're making larger changes like adding a whole new doc or editing many existing docs, it can be helpful to run the site locally. For instructions, see [Tech writer workflow](/docs/style-guide/writer-workflow/tech-writer-workflow/).

## Delete pages [#delete-doc]

If you are comfortable with deleting the page yourself, go for it. Note that if a doc is marked for translation, we should also delete it in the `i18n` folder. To request us to delete something:

1. [File an issue in the docs-website repo](https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/issues/new/choose), or contact the @hero in the #help-documentation channel if you're a New Relic employee.
2. We'll take a look at your issue and help out.

## Private edits [#private-edits]

If you need to stage content for a preview, contact the docs hero in the #help-documentation Slack channel.

## Request a future publication date (for New Relic employees) [#hold-for-release]

If your draft needs to be released on a specific date or within a specific timeframe (for example, right before a release), contact the Tech Docs @hero in the #help-documentation Slack channel. If you're not a New Relic employee, please [create a GitHub issue](https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/issues/new/choose).

Commit message:

fix(Style guide): Add video for editing existing branches

src/content/docs/style-guide/writing-docs/processes-procedures/create-edit-content.mdx, after:

---
title: Create and edit content
contentType: page
template: basicDoc
topics:
  - Basic style guide
  - Writing guidelines
redirects:
  - >-
    /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/processes-and-procedures/creating-and-editing-content
  - >-
    /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/processes-procedures/creating-editing-content
  - >-
    /docs/new-relic-only/basic-style-guide/basic-style-guide/creating-editing-content
  - /docs/new-relic-only/basic-style-guide/basic-style-guide/create-edit-content
  - /docs/style-guide/writing-guidelines/create-edit-content
---

We welcome your contributions, whether you are a New Relic employee or a New Relic user! And we don't want you to worry about style. When you edit a file, tech writers on our team review it for style, grammar, and formatting. That said, if you're curious about our style guidelines, you're welcome (but not obligated) [to take a look](/docs/style-guide/get-started/introduction-style-guide/).

## Edit a doc [#edit-doc]

If you see a minor problem in our documentation that you want to quickly fix, you can use GitHub to edit the file and submit your pull request. A member of the Docs team will review your edit and publish your changes. We'll follow up with you if we have any questions.

To edit existing content without building the site locally:

1. On the docs site, navigate to the doc you'd like to edit.
2. Click **Edit page** on the top corner of the right nav.
3. A GitHub page will open with the source of the doc. Click the **pencil** icon in the top right.
4. Make your edits (don't worry too much about formatting or grammar, we're happy to take care of that).
5. At the bottom of the page, enter a commit message that describes your change, then click **Commit changes**.
6. Follow the prompts to submit your pull request.

A member of the Docs team will review your pull request and comment with any feedback. Once we've merged your pull request into the **Develop** branch, your changes will go live with our next release (usually within a few hours).

If you'd like to go deeper with development, see our [Contributors guide](https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#editing-existing-pages) for information on how to fork our site, build it locally, and submit pull requests.

## Edit an existing branch [#one-doc]

If you're a contributor who is collaborating with a writer who has already started some work you'd like to contribute to, you can also do this in GitHub. You'll need to create a fork of the docs repository, add your changes in the fork, and then create a PR to get your changes published in the original branch.

Check out this four minute video that explains the process:

  <Video
    type="wistia"
    id=”jsh48c18dq"
  />

## Create new docs [#creating-docs]

You can use [article templates](/docs/style-guide/article-templates) or [clone an existing doc](#clone-doc) as a template. To create a new doc:

1. Clone the repo on your computer.
2. In `/src/content/docs/`, find a good location for your doc.
3. Using your text editor, create a new `.mdx` file or copy an existing doc.
4. Write your content.
5. Optional: [Add your doc to the right nav `.yml` file](/docs/style-guide/processes-procedures/understand-edit-docs-site-structure/). The navigation files can be a bit hard to work with, so feel free to leave this step for a Docs writer to handle when they review your pull request.
6. Commit your changes and create a pull request.

The Tech Docs team has two heroes watching for new pull requests. We'll help you get the content finalized and make sure that it's in the right place.

## For bigger projects [#bigger-projects]

If you're making larger changes like adding a whole new doc or editing many existing docs, it can be helpful to run the site locally. For instructions, see [Tech writer workflow](/docs/style-guide/writer-workflow/tech-writer-workflow/).

## Delete pages [#delete-doc]

If you are comfortable with deleting the page yourself, go for it. Note that if a doc is marked for translation, we should also delete it in the `i18n` folder. To request us to delete something:

1. [File an issue in the docs-website repo](https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/issues/new/choose), or contact the @hero in the #help-documentation channel if you're a New Relic employee.
2. We'll take a look at your issue and help out.

## Private edits [#private-edits]

If you need to stage content for a preview, contact the docs hero in the #help-documentation Slack channel.

## Request a future publication date (for New Relic employees) [#hold-for-release]

If your draft needs to be released on a specific date or within a specific timeframe (for example, right before a release), contact the Tech Docs @hero in the #help-documentation Slack channel. If you're not a New Relic employee, please [create a GitHub issue](https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/issues/new/choose).
