src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type.mdx, before:

---
title: "User type: basic, core, and full platform users"
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - New Relic user management
translate:
  - jp
  - kr
metaDescription: "An explanation of New Relic user types: basic users, core users, and full platform users."
redirects: 
  - /docs/accounts/users-roles/user-type
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/core-users-release
  - /docs/accounts/pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing/new-relic-one-pricing-details
signupBanner:
  text: Monitor and improve your entire stack. 100GB free. Forever.
---

import accountsUserTypeCapabilities from 'images/accounts_diagram_user-type-capabilities.png'

In this doc you'll learn how we define **user type**, what capabilities each user type has, and how to decide on a user type.

Want to learn about how users are calculated for billing purposes? See [New Relic pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing). If you haven't already, be sure to [sign up for a New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup). It's free, forever.

## What's the "user type"? [#user-type-defined]

A user's **user type** is what determines the set of New Relic capabilities a user can theoretically access. A user's user type takes precedence and overrides any role-related restrictions. ([Learn more about factors that affect user access.](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-concepts#user-type-groups-relation))

There are three user types:

* **Basic user**: several basic but powerful New Relic platform capabilities. 
* **Core user**: more capabilities than a basic user. 
* **Full platform user**: all capabilities.

To skip to learning more about capabilities, see [Capabilities](#user-type-capabilities). To learn more about the user type concept, keep reading.

Basic users are free, while core users and full platform users are billable. This doc is focused on what user types have access to: for details on billing, see [User billing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing).

If you're tasked with [adding New Relic users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/tutorial-add-new-user-groups-roles-new-relic-one-user-model/#add-users), one of the key decisions to make is what user type to make them. If you're not sure at first, you can add them as basic users and later decide which users you want to upgrade. For how to adjust user type, see [Manage user type](#manage-user-type).

The user type is meant to be a fairly long-term setting based on a user's expected responsibilities over the next several months or longer. That intention is reflected in our [billing calculations and downgrade rules](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing). To make more frequent or more granular adjustments to what a user can access, you should [use roles](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/groups-roles-capabilities).

## Overview of user type capabilities [#user-type-capabilities]

Here's a brief summary of the capabilities of each user type:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th className="fcenter">
        Basic user
      </th>

      <th className="fcenter">
        Core user
      </th>

      <th className="fcenter">
        Full platform user
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Basic users are free. Basic users can set up our observability tools, run queries of your data, use custom dashboards, use some basic alerting features, and more. They **can't** use our curated experiences (for example, our APM UI, browser UI, or mobile UI).

      </td>

      <td>
        Core users can access more features than basic users but less than full platform users. They have access to some powerful developer-centric features like New Relic CodeStream, errors inbox, and our log management UI.
      </td>

      <td>
        Full platform users can access everything, including our more curated observability UI experiences, such as APM, infrastructure monitoring, browser monitoring, mobile monitoring, synthetic monitors, and more.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

For a more detailed comparision, see the [capabilities table](#user-type-comparison-table).

Remember that the user type overrides any [role-related permissions](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-concepts#user-type-groups-relation).

## How to pick a user type [#choose-user-type]

Before deciding on user types, you'll want to understand the [billing impacts and downgrade rules](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing). For an in-depth capability comparison, see the [Capability table](#user-type-comparison-table).

Here are some tips for deciding on a user type:

**Reasons to make someone a full platform user:**

* They need full access to the New Relic platform (our curated dashboards and other experiences), not only the ability to query and create custom charts. 
* They play a key role in the development, testing, deployment, and maintenance phases of the application development lifecycle.
* They break/fix code regularly; they are responsible for triaging workflows, troubleshooting, or managing users and roles for their team.
* They have DevOps practices (for example, version control systems, and implementation of CI/CD).

**Reasons to make someone a core user:**

* They're developers who aren't tasked with reliability and uptime as their main responsibility.
* They don't require full platform access, but would benefit from some of the specific functionalities offered to core users, like:
  * Debugging code issues directly from their IDE, using [New Relic CodeStream](/docs/codestream/start-here/what-is-codestream).
  * Viewing errors in one place from across your stack, using [Errors inbox](/docs/errors-inbox/errors-inbox).
  * Using our [Logs UI](/docs/logs/ui-data/use-logs-ui) to spot problems and patterns in logs.
  * The ability to use apps from our [New Relic app catalog](https://opensource.newrelic.com/nerdpacks).
* They need to be able to manage users and/or billing (both core and full platform users can do that).

**Reasons to make someone a basic user:**

* They don't need full platform access to use our curated experiences and dashboards, but would benefit from creating custom queries and charts of data.
* They play a key role in the planning phase of the application development lifecycle.
* They use and configure New Relic tools to get data into New Relic, and access, configure, and use alerts on such data, but are not necessarily responsible for triaging workflows, troubleshooting, or managing users and roles for their team.
* They want to see high-level analytics and business metrics for future planning (as is often true of C-suite executives).
* They don't manage users or billing.

## User type capability comparison table [#user-type-comparison-table]

Below is a detailed comparison of capabilities by user type. Important points about this table:

* The table comes from [our pricing page](https://newrelic.com/pricing). To find the table, visit the **User costs** heading and click **View permissions**. 
* Many of the features require access to our UI experiences, not to the underlying data. All users can query all data in the accounts they can access and can create and view custom charts. For instance, basic users can access APM data, browser monitoring data, and more, but can't access curated UI experiences. 
* The user type is meant to be a long-term setting. User-type-related restrictions override role-based permissions. [Learn more about user access factors.](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-concepts#user-type-groups-relation)

For tips on why you'd choose one user type versus another, see [Decide on user type](#choose-user-type).

<img
  title="User type capabilities table"
  alt="User type capabilities table"
  src={accountsUserTypeCapabilities}
/>

Here are some additional details about user type access for some features:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="ai-capabilities"
    title="Alerts and applied intelligence capabilities"
  >
    Here are more details about how user type impacts access to alerting and applied intelligence features:

    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th style="width:350px">
            What you get
          </th>

          <th
            style="text-align:center"
            style="width:170px"
          >
            Basic user
          </th>

          <th
            style="text-align:center"
            style="width:170px"
          >
            Core user
          </th>

          <th style="text-align:center">
            Full platform user
          </th>
        </tr>
      </thead>

      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td>
            Set up [alert conditions](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/learn-alerts/alerts-concepts-workflow), correlation decisions, and notifications
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            Acknowledge and resolve issues
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            Access to higher-level [applied intelligence](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/get-started/introduction-applied-intelligence) features, including:

            * Root cause analysis
            * Incident/anomaly analysis
            * Correlation assistant
            * Issue maps
            * Machine learning classification
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center"/>

          <td style="text-align:center"/>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="api-access"
    title="APIs: data ingest and NerdGraph"
  >
Details about access to [our APIs](/docs/apis/intro-apis/introduction-new-relic-apis): 

* **Data ingest**: All user types can set up almost all of our integrations and agents, including ingesting data via our ingest APIs. Some New Relic solutions require being a full platform user to set up. If so, it is mentioned in the requirements section for the docs of those solutions. 
* **NerdGraph**: A user can use [NerdGraph API](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph) to do the same things they can do from the UI. For example: configuring APM settings requires being a full platform user, whether that configuration is done via the UI or via NerdGraph. For another example: the [administration-related capabilities](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-concepts/#admin-settings) (for example, adding users, and adding accounts) require being a core user or full platform user, whether that's done in the UI or via NerdGraph.

Error messages about not having permissions when using an API may relate to user type restrictions. For more on access factors, see [Factors affecting access](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-structure/factors-affecting-access-features-data).  
</Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="quickstarts"
    title="Instant Observability quickstarts"
  >
Details about access to the options available on [our Instant Observability page](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability): 

* Basic and core users can install almost all New Relic solutions but, as shown in the [user type table](#user-type-comparison-table), they can't access our curated experiences (for example, our APM UI, mobile UI, and infrastructure UI).
* For the custom dashboards that come with our quickstarts (for example, the dashboard included with [our .NET quickstart](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/dotnet)): basic and core users can access those for 7 days.
</Collapser>  

  <Collapser
    id="logs-capabilities"
    title="Log management capabilities"
  >
Details on log management capabilities by user type:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr style="width:170px">
      <th>
        Basic users
      </th>

      <th>
        Core users and full platform users
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
<tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
* Search, view, and query log data
* Saved views
* Attributes
      </td>
<td>

All features, including those in **Basic user** column and: 

* Patterns
* Drop filters
* Parsing
* Data partitions
* Define custom rules and logic
* Log obfuscation (available with [Data Plus](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/data-ingest-billing#data-prices))
* [Livetail](/docs/logs/troubleshooting/view-log-messages-real-time-live-tail)

These users can also see [logs in context](/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents) for the UI experiences they have access to (for example, core users can see log data in the errors inbox UI).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

## Manage user type and upgrade requests [#manage-user-type]

How you manage a user's user type depends on which [user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-user-models) your organization's users are on:

* [Docs for our newer user model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-ui-and-tasks#edit-user-type)
* [Docs for our original user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/users-roles-original-user-model#update-user-type)

For rules around billing and downgrading users, see [Billing and downgrade rules](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing).

## Learn how user type relates to roles [#roles-user-type]

For an explanation of how the concept of user type relates to our roles, see [User management concepts](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-concepts/#standard-roles).

## Lacking access to something? [#access]

For questions related to lack of access to New Relic accounts or features, see [Factors affecting access](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/factors-affecting-access-features-data/#account-access).

Commit message:

Correct user type wording
Correct wording about how user type interacts with access control configuration.

src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type.mdx, after:

---
title: "User type: basic, core, and full platform users"
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - New Relic user management
translate:
  - jp
  - kr
metaDescription: "An explanation of New Relic user types: basic users, core users, and full platform users."
redirects: 
  - /docs/accounts/users-roles/user-type
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/core-users-release
  - /docs/accounts/pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing/new-relic-one-pricing-details
signupBanner:
  text: Monitor and improve your entire stack. 100GB free. Forever.
---

import accountsUserTypeCapabilities from 'images/accounts_diagram_user-type-capabilities.png'

In this doc you'll learn how we define **user type**, what capabilities each user type has, and how to decide on a user type.

Want to learn about how users are calculated for billing purposes? See [New Relic pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing). If you haven't already, be sure to [sign up for a New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup). It's free, forever.

## What's the "user type"? [#user-type-defined]

A user's **user type** is what determines the set of New Relic capabilities a user is entitled to access. A user can only access functionality that is both available to their user type and configured in their access control configuration. ([Learn more about factors that affect user access.](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-concepts#user-type-groups-relation))

There are three user types:

* **Basic user**: several basic but powerful New Relic platform capabilities. 
* **Core user**: more capabilities than a basic user. 
* **Full platform user**: all capabilities.

To skip to learning more about capabilities, see [Capabilities](#user-type-capabilities). To learn more about the user type concept, keep reading.

Basic users are free, while core users and full platform users are billable. This doc is focused on what user types have access to: for details on billing, see [User billing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing).

If you're tasked with [adding New Relic users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/tutorial-add-new-user-groups-roles-new-relic-one-user-model/#add-users), one of the key decisions to make is what user type to make them. If you're not sure at first, you can add them as basic users and later decide which users you want to upgrade. For how to adjust user type, see [Manage user type](#manage-user-type).

The user type is meant to be a fairly long-term setting based on a user's expected responsibilities over the next several months or longer. That intention is reflected in our [billing calculations and downgrade rules](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing). To make more frequent or more granular adjustments to what a user can access, you should [use roles](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/groups-roles-capabilities).

## Overview of user type capabilities [#user-type-capabilities]

Here's a brief summary of the capabilities of each user type:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th className="fcenter">
        Basic user
      </th>

      <th className="fcenter">
        Core user
      </th>

      <th className="fcenter">
        Full platform user
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Basic users are free. Basic users can set up our observability tools, run queries of your data, use custom dashboards, use some basic alerting features, and more. They **can't** use our curated experiences (for example, our APM UI, browser UI, or mobile UI).

      </td>

      <td>
        Core users can access more features than basic users but less than full platform users. They have access to some powerful developer-centric features like New Relic CodeStream, errors inbox, and our log management UI.
      </td>

      <td>
        Full platform users can access everything, including our more curated observability UI experiences, such as APM, infrastructure monitoring, browser monitoring, mobile monitoring, synthetic monitors, and more.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

For a more detailed comparision, see the [capabilities table](#user-type-comparison-table).

Remember that the user type overrides any [role-related permissions](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-concepts#user-type-groups-relation).

## How to pick a user type [#choose-user-type]

Before deciding on user types, you'll want to understand the [billing impacts and downgrade rules](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing). For an in-depth capability comparison, see the [Capability table](#user-type-comparison-table).

Here are some tips for deciding on a user type:

**Reasons to make someone a full platform user:**

* They need full access to the New Relic platform (our curated dashboards and other experiences), not only the ability to query and create custom charts. 
* They play a key role in the development, testing, deployment, and maintenance phases of the application development lifecycle.
* They break/fix code regularly; they are responsible for triaging workflows, troubleshooting, or managing users and roles for their team.
* They have DevOps practices (for example, version control systems, and implementation of CI/CD).

**Reasons to make someone a core user:**

* They're developers who aren't tasked with reliability and uptime as their main responsibility.
* They don't require full platform access, but would benefit from some of the specific functionalities offered to core users, like:
  * Debugging code issues directly from their IDE, using [New Relic CodeStream](/docs/codestream/start-here/what-is-codestream).
  * Viewing errors in one place from across your stack, using [Errors inbox](/docs/errors-inbox/errors-inbox).
  * Using our [Logs UI](/docs/logs/ui-data/use-logs-ui) to spot problems and patterns in logs.
  * The ability to use apps from our [New Relic app catalog](https://opensource.newrelic.com/nerdpacks).
* They need to be able to manage users and/or billing (both core and full platform users can do that).

**Reasons to make someone a basic user:**

* They don't need full platform access to use our curated experiences and dashboards, but would benefit from creating custom queries and charts of data.
* They play a key role in the planning phase of the application development lifecycle.
* They use and configure New Relic tools to get data into New Relic, and access, configure, and use alerts on such data, but are not necessarily responsible for triaging workflows, troubleshooting, or managing users and roles for their team.
* They want to see high-level analytics and business metrics for future planning (as is often true of C-suite executives).
* They don't manage users or billing.

## User type capability comparison table [#user-type-comparison-table]

Below is a detailed comparison of capabilities by user type. Important points about this table:

* The table comes from [our pricing page](https://newrelic.com/pricing). To find the table, visit the **User costs** heading and click **View permissions**. 
* Many of the features require access to our UI experiences, not to the underlying data. All users can query all data in the accounts they can access and can create and view custom charts. For instance, basic users can access APM data, browser monitoring data, and more, but can't access curated UI experiences. 
* The user type is meant to be a long-term setting. User-type-related restrictions override role-based permissions. [Learn more about user access factors.](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-concepts#user-type-groups-relation)

For tips on why you'd choose one user type versus another, see [Decide on user type](#choose-user-type).

<img
  title="User type capabilities table"
  alt="User type capabilities table"
  src={accountsUserTypeCapabilities}
/>

Here are some additional details about user type access for some features:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="ai-capabilities"
    title="Alerts and applied intelligence capabilities"
  >
    Here are more details about how user type impacts access to alerting and applied intelligence features:

    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th style="width:350px">
            What you get
          </th>

          <th
            style="text-align:center"
            style="width:170px"
          >
            Basic user
          </th>

          <th
            style="text-align:center"
            style="width:170px"
          >
            Core user
          </th>

          <th style="text-align:center">
            Full platform user
          </th>
        </tr>
      </thead>

      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td>
            Set up [alert conditions](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/learn-alerts/alerts-concepts-workflow), correlation decisions, and notifications
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            Acknowledge and resolve issues
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            Access to higher-level [applied intelligence](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/get-started/introduction-applied-intelligence) features, including:

            * Root cause analysis
            * Incident/anomaly analysis
            * Correlation assistant
            * Issue maps
            * Machine learning classification
          </td>

          <td style="text-align:center"/>

          <td style="text-align:center"/>

          <td style="text-align:center">
            <Icon
              style={{color: '#328787'}}
              name="fe-check"
            />
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="api-access"
    title="APIs: data ingest and NerdGraph"
  >
Details about access to [our APIs](/docs/apis/intro-apis/introduction-new-relic-apis): 

* **Data ingest**: All user types can set up almost all of our integrations and agents, including ingesting data via our ingest APIs. Some New Relic solutions require being a full platform user to set up. If so, it is mentioned in the requirements section for the docs of those solutions. 
* **NerdGraph**: A user can use [NerdGraph API](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph) to do the same things they can do from the UI. For example: configuring APM settings requires being a full platform user, whether that configuration is done via the UI or via NerdGraph. For another example: the [administration-related capabilities](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-concepts/#admin-settings) (for example, adding users, and adding accounts) require being a core user or full platform user, whether that's done in the UI or via NerdGraph.

Error messages about not having permissions when using an API may relate to user type restrictions. For more on access factors, see [Factors affecting access](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-structure/factors-affecting-access-features-data).  
</Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="quickstarts"
    title="Instant Observability quickstarts"
  >
Details about access to the options available on [our Instant Observability page](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability): 

* Basic and core users can install almost all New Relic solutions but, as shown in the [user type table](#user-type-comparison-table), they can't access our curated experiences (for example, our APM UI, mobile UI, and infrastructure UI).
* For the custom dashboards that come with our quickstarts (for example, the dashboard included with [our .NET quickstart](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/dotnet)): basic and core users can access those for 7 days.
</Collapser>  

  <Collapser
    id="logs-capabilities"
    title="Log management capabilities"
  >
Details on log management capabilities by user type:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr style="width:170px">
      <th>
        Basic users
      </th>

      <th>
        Core users and full platform users
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
<tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
* Search, view, and query log data
* Saved views
* Attributes
      </td>
<td>

All features, including those in **Basic user** column and: 

* Patterns
* Drop filters
* Parsing
* Data partitions
* Define custom rules and logic
* Log obfuscation (available with [Data Plus](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/data-ingest-billing#data-prices))
* [Livetail](/docs/logs/troubleshooting/view-log-messages-real-time-live-tail)

These users can also see [logs in context](/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents) for the UI experiences they have access to (for example, core users can see log data in the errors inbox UI).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

## Manage user type and upgrade requests [#manage-user-type]

How you manage a user's user type depends on which [user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-user-models) your organization's users are on:

* [Docs for our newer user model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-ui-and-tasks#edit-user-type)
* [Docs for our original user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/users-roles-original-user-model#update-user-type)

For rules around billing and downgrading users, see [Billing and downgrade rules](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing).

## Learn how user type relates to roles [#roles-user-type]

For an explanation of how the concept of user type relates to our roles, see [User management concepts](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-concepts/#standard-roles).

## Lacking access to something? [#access]

For questions related to lack of access to New Relic accounts or features, see [Factors affecting access](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/factors-affecting-access-features-data/#account-access).
