src/content/docs/style-guide/images/embed-videos.mdx, before:

---
title: Embed videos
tags:
  - Tech writer style guide
  - Processes and procedures
redirects:
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/processes-and-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/processes-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/new-relic-only/advanced-style-guide/processes-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/new-relic-only/tech-writer-style-guide/processes-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/style-guide/processes-procedures/embed-videos
---

Embedding videos helps readers who prefer to learn by watching rather than reading. It also adds some visual pizzazz to the docs, and can be an easier way to explain complex processes. Our team usually doesn't create videos, but we work with teams that do to show off their content across the site.

Videos are hosted externally and are embedded in the doc site's page, linking to the external source.
New Relic maintains video in several places, but you can only embed Wistia and YouTube videos in our docs:

* [Wistia](https://wistia.com/) 
* [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/c/NewRelicInc)
* [New Relic Webinars](https://newrelic.com/resources/webinars) (Use for live videos&#8212;not embeddable)
* [Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/new_relic) (Use for live and video on demand&#8212;not embeddable)

## Before you add the video [#before-embed] 

Write introductory text above the embedded video or add a video caption after it. Include the approximate running time in your text, because some video formats will not show the video length until you click on them.

## Wistia [#wistia-options]

Besides the docs site, Wistia hosts videos for [learn.newrelic.com](https://learn.newrelic.com/). Wistia is a good place to host videos you create as a writer, as well as videos we receive from other teams.

To use Wistia to host videos:

1. Log on to [Wistia.com](https://wistia.com).
2. Click **Projects** in the left navigation pane.
3. In the center pane, page through until you find **docs.newrelic.com Videos**.
4. Click **Add > Upload**.
5. Click **Embed &#38; Share**.
6. Copy the video ID from the embed code so you can insert it into your video link. For example, `jsh48c18dq` from this tag:

  ```
  <script src="https://fast.wistia.com/embed/medias/jsh48c18dq.jsonp" async></script><script src="https://fast.wistia.com/assets/external/E-v1.js" async></script><div class="wistia_responsive_padding" style="padding:216.88% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><div class="wistia_responsive_wrapper" style="height:100%;left:0;position:absolute;top:0;width:100%;"><div class="wistia_embed wistia_async_jsh48c18dq videoFoam=true" style="height:100%;position:relative;width:100%"><div class="wistia_swatch" style="height:100%;left:0;opacity:0;overflow:hidden;position:absolute;top:0;transition:opacity 200ms;width:100%;"><img src="https://fast.wistia.com/embed/medias/jsh48c18dq/swatch" style="filter:blur(5px);height:100%;object-fit:contain;width:100%;" alt="" aria-hidden="true" onload="this.parentNode.style.opacity=1;" /></div></div></div></div>
  ```
7. Insert the ID into the video tag in your document. Note that you can also add properties to control the video (see [Sizing videos](#sizing)).

  ```
  <Video
    type="wistia"
    id=”jsh48c18dq"
  />
  ```

## YouTube  [#youtube-options]

You have two options to embed videos from YouTube: the `<iframe>` tag or our `<Video>` component.

### Use iframe tag from YouTube [#use-iframe]

Use the embed code that you can find on the YouTube site:

1. Go to the YouTube and find the video you want to embed.
2. Click **Share** and then click **Embed**.
3. Copy the entire `<iframe>` tag. For example:

  ```
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/04JP0ky_hjI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
  ```
4. Paste that tag into your document.

Here's how it is displayed:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/04JP0ky_hjI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### Use our Video component [#video-comp]

You can use the `Video` component in the same way you use it for videos hosted on [Wistia](#wistia-options). Copy the video ID from YouTube and insert it into the `Video` component. Note that you can also add properties to control the video (see [Sizing videos](#sizing)).

Here's an example without any additional properties:
```
<Video
  type="youtube"
  id="04JP0ky_hjI"
/>
```
Here's how it is displayed:

<Video
  type="youtube"
  id="04JP0ky_hjI"
/>

## Sizing videos [#sizing]

When you use the `<Video>` component you can add properties to control how it is displayed.

### Width [#width]

You can only set width&#8212;not height. Here's an example:

```
<Video
  type="wistia"
  id="04JP0ky_hjI"
  width='400px'
/>
```

### Aspect ratio [#tall-skinny]

If you have some videos that are much smaller than the width of the main body, they can appear as tiny videos in the center of a full-width video box. To address this, you can do the following:

* Add the `vertical` property of the component because it shrinks the container to the width of the video.
* To size tall, skinny companion images that need to match the narrow videos, use `maxWidth` instead of `width`. For example: `style={{ maxWidth: '290px' }}`.

Here's an example of the `vertical` property:

```
<Video
  type="wistia"
  id="qyk74p7j56"
  vertical
  width='290px'
/>
```

Here's how it is displayed:

<Video
  type="wistia"
  id="qyk74p7j56"
  vertical
  width='290px'
/>

Commit message:

fix(style guide): more on creating vids

src/content/docs/style-guide/images/embed-videos.mdx, after:

---
title: Embed videos
tags:
  - Tech writer style guide
  - Processes and procedures
redirects:
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/processes-and-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/processes-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/new-relic-only/advanced-style-guide/processes-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/new-relic-only/tech-writer-style-guide/processes-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/style-guide/processes-procedures/embed-videos
---

Embedding videos helps readers who prefer to learn by watching rather than reading. It also adds some visual pizzazz to the docs, and can be an easier way to explain complex processes. 

For tips on creating videos, see [Create video](/docs/style-guide/images/create-videos).

Videos are hosted externally and are embedded in the doc site's page, linking to the external source.

New Relic maintains video in several places, but you can only embed Wistia and YouTube videos in our docs:

* [Wistia](https://wistia.com/) 
* [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/c/NewRelicInc)
* [New Relic Webinars](https://newrelic.com/resources/webinars) (Use for live videos&#8212;not embeddable)
* [Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/new_relic) (Use for live and video on demand&#8212;not embeddable)

## Before you add the video [#before-embed] 

Write introductory text above the embedded video or add a video caption after it. Include the approximate running time in your text, because some video formats will not show the video length until you click on them.

## Wistia [#wistia-options]

Besides the docs site, Wistia hosts videos for [learn.newrelic.com](https://learn.newrelic.com/). Wistia is a good place to host videos you create as a writer, as well as videos we receive from other teams.

To use Wistia to host videos:

1. Log on to [Wistia.com](https://wistia.com).
2. Click **Projects** in the left navigation pane.
3. In the center pane, page through until you find **docs.newrelic.com Videos**.
4. Click **Add > Upload**.
5. Click **Embed &#38; Share**.
6. Copy the video ID from the embed code so you can insert it into your video link. For example, `jsh48c18dq` from this tag:

  ```
  <script src="https://fast.wistia.com/embed/medias/jsh48c18dq.jsonp" async></script><script src="https://fast.wistia.com/assets/external/E-v1.js" async></script><div class="wistia_responsive_padding" style="padding:216.88% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><div class="wistia_responsive_wrapper" style="height:100%;left:0;position:absolute;top:0;width:100%;"><div class="wistia_embed wistia_async_jsh48c18dq videoFoam=true" style="height:100%;position:relative;width:100%"><div class="wistia_swatch" style="height:100%;left:0;opacity:0;overflow:hidden;position:absolute;top:0;transition:opacity 200ms;width:100%;"><img src="https://fast.wistia.com/embed/medias/jsh48c18dq/swatch" style="filter:blur(5px);height:100%;object-fit:contain;width:100%;" alt="" aria-hidden="true" onload="this.parentNode.style.opacity=1;" /></div></div></div></div>
  ```
7. Insert the ID into the video tag in your document. Note that you can also add properties to control the video (see [Sizing videos](#sizing)).

  ```
  <Video
    type="wistia"
    id=”jsh48c18dq"
  />
  ```

## YouTube  [#youtube-options]

You have two options to embed videos from YouTube: the `<iframe>` tag or our `<Video>` component.

### Use iframe tag from YouTube [#use-iframe]

Use the embed code that you can find on the YouTube site:

1. Go to the YouTube and find the video you want to embed.
2. Click **Share** and then click **Embed**.
3. Copy the entire `<iframe>` tag. For example:

  ```
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/04JP0ky_hjI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
  ```
4. Paste that tag into your document.

Here's how it is displayed:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/04JP0ky_hjI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### Use our Video component [#video-comp]

You can use the `Video` component in the same way you use it for videos hosted on [Wistia](#wistia-options). Copy the video ID from YouTube and insert it into the `Video` component. Note that you can also add properties to control the video (see [Sizing videos](#sizing)).

Here's an example without any additional properties:
```
<Video
  type="youtube"
  id="04JP0ky_hjI"
/>
```
Here's how it is displayed:

<Video
  type="youtube"
  id="04JP0ky_hjI"
/>

## Sizing videos [#sizing]

When you use the `<Video>` component you can add properties to control how it is displayed.

### Width [#width]

You can only set width&#8212;not height. Here's an example:

```
<Video
  type="wistia"
  id="04JP0ky_hjI"
  width='400px'
/>
```

### Aspect ratio [#tall-skinny]

If you have some videos that are much smaller than the width of the main body, they can appear as tiny videos in the center of a full-width video box. To address this, you can do the following:

* Add the `vertical` property of the component because it shrinks the container to the width of the video.
* To size tall, skinny companion images that need to match the narrow videos, use `maxWidth` instead of `width`. For example: `style={{ maxWidth: '290px' }}`.

Here's an example of the `vertical` property:

```
<Video
  type="wistia"
  id="qyk74p7j56"
  vertical
  width='290px'
/>
```

Here's how it is displayed:

<Video
  type="wistia"
  id="qyk74p7j56"
  vertical
  width='290px'
/>
