src/content/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/events/record-deployments.mdx, before:

---
title: Record and view deployments
tags:
  - APM
  - Maintenance
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: To set up deployment notifications for apps monitored by APM, use webhooks, APM agent-specific options, or New Relic''s REST API.
redirects:
  - /docs/site/setting-up-deployment-notifications
  - /docs/general/how-do-i-set-up-the-agent-to-notify-rpm-of-deployments
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/setting-deployment-notifications
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/deployment-notifications
  - /node/9661
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/recording-deployments
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/record-deployments
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/record-deployments-webhooks-or-api
  - /docs/apis/rest-api-v2/application-examples-v2/recording-deployments-rest-api-v2
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/record-monitor-deployments
  - /docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/events/change-tracking/record-deployments
---

import trackingIdentifyPreview from 'images/tracking_screenshot-crop_identify-preview.png'

<Callout variant="important">
  We recommend that you use the [change tacking](/docs/change-tracking/change-tracking-introduction/) feature instead of the older deployment markers. If you've been using deployment markers feature, you can still use it, but keep in mind that the change tacking feature is available for browser and mobile, as well as APM.
</Callout>

Deploying an app can be a risky event—when your app breaks, and a bad deployment is often the cause. New Relic allows you to track deployments so you can correlate deployments with changes in your app's performance. Tracking deployments creates deployment markers that appear in APM charts and dashboards.

See how deployment markers work in this short video (4:30 minutes):
<Video id="HPeXZubcZ7o" type="youtube"/>

## Options for tracking deployments [#options]

You can use the New Relic [REST API v2](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/requirements/new-relic-rest-api-v2-getting-started) to record new deployments and retrieve a list of past deployments. In addition, some APM agents have agent-specific methods to record deployments automatically.

You can use your [Slack](https://slack.com/) integration with New Relic, or a simple webhook, to notify your team in real time of deployments for applications monitored by APM. Slack provides a webhook URL that allows you to post generic JSON that will appear formatted in a chosen Slack channel.

There are a few places where you can view deployments in the New Relic UI after they have been recorded:

* In the activity feed on the [APM Summary](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page-view-transaction-apdex-usage-data), Service summary, and [entity summary pages](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/ui-data/new-relic-one-entity-explorer-view-performance-across-apps-services-hosts).
* On APM performance charts as chart markers (vertical lines with pinheads).
* On dashboard charts as chart markers.
* On the [Deployments](/docs/apm/applications-menu/events/deployments-page-view-impact-your-app-users) page for summary performance.


<Callout variant="tip">
  Deployment markers are not available for browser applications yet, but we will be releasing a new API soon that does support that. Contact us through this [sign-up form](https://newrelic.com/platform/change-tracking/signup) to learn more about participating in a limited preview. Also, see [browser releases](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/browser-agent-spa-api/add-release) for a way to tag errors with release versions.
</Callout>

## Record deployments with the REST API [#api-instructions]

You can use the New Relic REST API v2 to record deployments and get a list of past deployments.

* The examples in this document use `curl` as a command line tool. However, you can use any method to make your REST requests. You can also create and view deployments with the [API Explorer](https://rpm.newrelic.com/api/explore/application_deployments/create).
* JSON uses double quotes `"` for element names and content. Using single quotes `'` will cause errors.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="post-deployment"
    title="Record a deployment with POST"
  >
    To record a new deployment, send a `POST` request that includes your [API key](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key) to the deployments endpoint. Attach the payload in JSON format (see [Character limits and JSON parameters](#deployment_limits)). All payload parameters are optional except `revision`.

    For example:

    ```
    curl -X POST "https://api.newrelic.com/v2/applications/<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/requirements/finding-product-id#apm">$APP_ID</a>/deployments.json" \
         -H "Api-Key:<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key">$API_KEY</a>" \
         -i \
         -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
         -d \
    '{
      "deployment": {
        "revision": "REVISION",
        "changelog": "Added: /v2/deployments.rb, Removed: None",
        "description": "Added a deployments resource to the v2 API",
        "user": "datanerd@example.com",
        "timestamp": "2019-10-08T00:15:36Z"
      }
    }'
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="powershell"
    title="Record a deployment with PowerShell"
  >
    To record a deployment with PowerShell, send a `POST` request that includes your [API key](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key) to the deployments endpoint. Attach the payload in JSON format (see [Character limits and JSON parameters](#deployment_limits)). All payload parameters are optional except `revision`.

    This example uses PowerShell version 3 or higher:

    ```
    Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://api.newrelic.com/v2/applications/<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/requirements/finding-product-id#apm">YOUR_APP_ID</a>/deployments.json -Method POST -Headers @{'Api-Key'='<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key">$API_KEY</a>'} -ContentType 'application/json' -Body '{
        "deployment": {
        "revision": "REVISION",
        "changelog": "Added: /v2/deployments.rb, Removed: None",
        "description": "Added a deployments resource to the v2 API",
        "user": "datanerd@example.com",
        "timestamp": "2019-10-08T00:15:36Z"
    }
    }'
    ```

    This example uses PowerShell version 2 (requires .NET framework 3.5 or higher):

    ```
    $encoding = [System.Text.Encoding]::GetEncoding("ASCII")
    $data ='{
    "deployment": {
        "revision": "REVISION",
        "changelog": "Added: /v2/deployments.rb, Removed: None",
        "description": "Added a deployments resource to the v2 API",
        "user": "datanerd@example.com",
        "timestamp": "2019-10-08T00:15:36Z"
    }
    }'
    $postData = $encoding.GetBytes($data)
    $request = [System.Net.WebRequest]::Create('https://api.newrelic.com/v2/applications/<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/requirements/finding-product-id#apm">$APP_ID</a>/deployments.json')
    $request.Method = 'POST'
    $request.Headers.add('Api-Key','<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key">$API_KEY</a>')
    $request.ContentType='application/json'
    $stream = $request.GetRequestStream()
    $stream.Write($postData,0,$postData.Length)
    $request.GetResponse()
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="get-list"
    title="View a list of deployments with GET"
  >
    To retrieve a list of all past deployments for your app, send a `GET` request that includes your [API key](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key) to the deployments endpoint. GET requests do not use a JSON payload.

    For example:

    ```
    curl -X GET "https://api.newrelic.com/v2/applications/<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/requirements/finding-product-id#apm">$APP_ID</a>/deployments.json" \
         -H "Api-Key:<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key">$API_KEY</a>" \
         -i
    ```

    <CollapserGroup>
      <Collapser
        id="sample-get-output"
        title="Sample output from GET"
      >
        This example requests a list of deployments for app ID `9999999`:

        ```
        curl -X GET "https://api.newrelic.com/v2/applications/9999999/deployments.json" \
             -H "Api-Key:ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwx" \
             -i
        ```

        The API returns this list of deployments:

        ```
        HTTP/1.1 200 OK
        ETag: "ABCDEFGHIJKabcdefghijk0123456789"
        Cache-Control: max-age=0, private, must-revalidate
        Content-Type: application/json
        {
          "deployments": [
            {
              "id": 1234567,
              "revision": "1234123412341234123412341234123412341234",
              "changelog": "Fixed the bugs for real this time",
              "description": "Example description two",
              "user": "Data Nerd",
              "timestamp": "2016-02-24T10:09:27-08:00",
              "links": {
                "application": 9999999
              }
            },
            {
              "id": 2345678,
              "revision": "7890789078907890789078907890789078907890",
              "changelog": "Think I fixed all the bugs",
              "description": null,
              "user": "Dren Atad",
              "timestamp": "2014-10-22T12:23:47-07:00",
              "links": {
                "application": 9999999
              }
            }
          ],
          "links": {
            "deployment.agent": "/v2/applications/{application_id}"
          }
        }
        ```
      </Collapser>
    </CollapserGroup>
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="deployment-limits"
    title="Character limits and JSON parameters"
  >
    The JSON payload can include the following parameters.

    <Callout variant="important">
      UTF-8 4 byte characters, such as Emojis and some non-Latin language glyphs, cannot be used in the deployment text.
    </Callout>

    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ width: "135px" }}>
            Parameter
          </th>

          <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
            Data type
          </th>

          <th>
            Description
          </th>
        </tr>
      </thead>

      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td>
            `revision`
          </td>

          <td>
            String, 127 character maximum
          </td>

          <td>
            **Required**. A unique ID for this deployment, visible in the [Summary](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page) page and on the [Deployments](/docs/apm/applications-menu/events/deployments-page) page. Can be any string, but is usually a version number or a Git checksum.
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            `changelog`
          </td>

          <td>
            String, 65535 character maximum
          </td>

          <td>
            **Optional**. A summary of what changed in this deployment, visible in the [Deployments](/docs/apm/applications-menu/events/deployments-page) page when you select **(selected deployment) > Change log**.
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            `description`
          </td>

          <td>
            String, 65535 character maximum
          </td>

          <td>
            **Optional**. A high-level description of this deployment, visible in the [Summary](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page) page and on the [Deployments](/docs/apm/applications-menu/events/deployments-page) page when you select an individual deployment.
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            `user`
          </td>

          <td>
            String, 31 character maximum
          </td>

          <td>
            **Optional**. A username to associate with the deployment, visible in the [Summary](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page) page and on the [Deployments](/docs/apm/applications-menu/events/deployments-page) page.
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            `timestamp`
          </td>

          <td>
            ISO 8601
          </td>

          <td>
            **Optional**. When the deployment occurred, down to the second. If not specified, the deployment will be recorded at the time when the API call was received. Timestamp requirements:

            * Must be in UTC time.
            * Must be after the most recent deployment timestamp.
            * Cannot be in the future.
            * Must be in ISO8601 format; for example, `"2019-10-08T00:15:36Z"`.
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Record deployments using the New Relic agent [#agent]

Some agents have additional methods to record deployments:

* **All agents**: Use the New Relic [REST API v2](#api).
* **C**: No SDK-specific methods. Use the [REST API](#api).
* **Go**: No agent-specific methods. Use the [REST API](#api).
* **Java**: Call the [Java agent `jar`](/docs/agents/java-agent/instrumentation/recording-deployments-java-agent).
* **.NET**: Use [PowerShell and the REST API](#powershell).
* **Node.js**: No agent-specific methods. Use the [REST API](#api).
* **PHP**: Use a [PHP script](/docs/agents/php-agent/features/recording-deployments-using-php-script).
* **Python**: Use the [`record-deploy`](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation-configuration/python-agent-admin-script#record-deploy) subcommand of the `newrelic-admin` script.
* **Ruby**: Use a [Capistrano recipe](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/features/recording-deployments-ruby-agent#capistrano3).

## Notify your team of deployments [#webhooks]

After a deployment is recorded using the REST API, you can optionally notify a webhook endpoint of the deployment.

The destination of the webhook can be your Slack instance. To use webhooks to set up a deployment notification for a Slack channel:

1. Log in to your Slack account as an admin, then go to **App directory > Manage > Apps**.
2. Search for your New Relic app, then select **Add configuration**.
3. From **Post to channel**, select an existing Slack channel or add a new channel, then **Add configuration**.
4. From the list of options, copy the webhook URL.
5. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > ([user menu](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/intro-account-settings)) > Account settings > Integrations > Deploy notifications > Webhook**.
6. Paste the Slack webhook URL, then save.
7. Optional: Send a test message.

<Callout variant="tip">
  You can also use webhooks, Slack channels, and other options for [alert notifications](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/managing-notification-channels/notification-channels-control-where-send-alerts).
</Callout>

## View deployment details [#dep_procedures]

<Callout variant="important">
  This section and the next are about how to use the current deployment markers UI. If you see a blue banner in the UI about being in a limited preview, you have access to the the new UI. In this case, switch to these new [instructions](/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/events/change-tracking/deployments-page-view-impact-your-app-users/).

</Callout>

After you configure the deployment information, you can view and drill down into details:

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > APM & services > (select an app) > Events > Deployments**.
2. Use any of New Relic's standard [user interface functions](/docs/data-analysis/user-interface-functions/standard-page-functions) to drill down into detailed information.
3. To view details for a particular event, select its **date** link.
4. To view the errors page for this deployment, select the **error** link.
5. To view details for a specific deployment if applicable, select **Change log** or **Change report**.

The **Change log** contains any detail provided through the `changelog` parameter when [recording the deployment](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/recording-deployments). The **Change report** displays the behavior of the top ten transactions before and after the deployment.

## View performance after a deployment [#dep_timepicker]

The **Deployments** page link for individual deployments appears on the selected app's [Summary](/docs/applications-menu/applications-overview) page in the **Events** section. For time frames shorter than 14 days, a blue vertical bar on a chart will indicate a deployment. To view summary information about the deployment, mouse over the blue bar.

<Callout variant="tip">
  You can also use the **Compare with** option on your APM summary page to select a time period to compare the same data. If you enable **Compare with**, the UI does not show deployment markers.
</Callout>

Commit message:

Update deployment docs with X-Api-Key examples
Attempting to provide an example that is more flexible no matter what type of key is used.

src/content/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/events/record-deployments.mdx, after:

---
title: Record and view deployments
tags:
  - APM
  - Maintenance
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: To set up deployment notifications for apps monitored by APM, use webhooks, APM agent-specific options, or New Relic''s REST API.
redirects:
  - /docs/site/setting-up-deployment-notifications
  - /docs/general/how-do-i-set-up-the-agent-to-notify-rpm-of-deployments
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/setting-deployment-notifications
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/deployment-notifications
  - /node/9661
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/recording-deployments
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/record-deployments
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/record-deployments-webhooks-or-api
  - /docs/apis/rest-api-v2/application-examples-v2/recording-deployments-rest-api-v2
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/record-monitor-deployments
  - /docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/events/change-tracking/record-deployments
---

import trackingIdentifyPreview from 'images/tracking_screenshot-crop_identify-preview.png'

<Callout variant="important">
  We recommend that you use the [change tacking](/docs/change-tracking/change-tracking-introduction/) feature instead of the older deployment markers. If you've been using deployment markers feature, you can still use it, but keep in mind that the change tacking feature is available for browser and mobile, as well as APM.
</Callout>

Deploying an app can be a risky event—when your app breaks, and a bad deployment is often the cause. New Relic allows you to track deployments so you can correlate deployments with changes in your app's performance. Tracking deployments creates deployment markers that appear in APM charts and dashboards.

See how deployment markers work in this short video (4:30 minutes):
<Video id="HPeXZubcZ7o" type="youtube"/>

## Options for tracking deployments [#options]

You can use the New Relic [REST API v2](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/requirements/new-relic-rest-api-v2-getting-started) to record new deployments and retrieve a list of past deployments. In addition, some APM agents have agent-specific methods to record deployments automatically.

You can use your [Slack](https://slack.com/) integration with New Relic, or a simple webhook, to notify your team in real time of deployments for applications monitored by APM. Slack provides a webhook URL that allows you to post generic JSON that will appear formatted in a chosen Slack channel.

There are a few places where you can view deployments in the New Relic UI after they have been recorded:

* In the activity feed on the [APM Summary](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page-view-transaction-apdex-usage-data), Service summary, and [entity summary pages](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/ui-data/new-relic-one-entity-explorer-view-performance-across-apps-services-hosts).
* On APM performance charts as chart markers (vertical lines with pinheads).
* On dashboard charts as chart markers.
* On the [Deployments](/docs/apm/applications-menu/events/deployments-page-view-impact-your-app-users) page for summary performance.


<Callout variant="tip">
  Deployment markers are not available for browser applications yet, but we will be releasing a new API soon that does support that. Contact us through this [sign-up form](https://newrelic.com/platform/change-tracking/signup) to learn more about participating in a limited preview. Also, see [browser releases](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/browser-agent-spa-api/add-release) for a way to tag errors with release versions.
</Callout>

## Record deployments with the REST API [#api-instructions]

You can use the New Relic REST API v2 to record deployments and get a list of past deployments.

* The examples in this document use `curl` as a command line tool. However, you can use any method to make your REST requests. You can also create and view deployments with the [API Explorer](https://rpm.newrelic.com/api/explore/application_deployments/create).
* JSON uses double quotes `"` for element names and content. Using single quotes `'` will cause errors.
* The examples use `X-Api-Key` which can be used for either a <a href="/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#user-api-key">user key</a> or a <a href="/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#rest-api-key">REST API key</a>. User keys are now the preferred way of accessing our REST APIs and you may use `Api-Key` headers when using them.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="post-deployment"
    title="Record a deployment with POST"
  >
    To record a new deployment, send a `POST` request that includes your [API key](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key) to the deployments endpoint. Attach the payload in JSON format (see [Character limits and JSON parameters](#deployment_limits)). All payload parameters are optional except `revision`.

    For example:

    ```
    curl -X POST "https://api.newrelic.com/v2/applications/<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/requirements/finding-product-id#apm">$APP_ID</a>/deployments.json" \
         -H "X-Api-Key:<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key">$API_KEY</a>" \
         -i \
         -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
         -d \
    '{
      "deployment": {
        "revision": "REVISION",
        "changelog": "Added: /v2/deployments.rb, Removed: None",
        "description": "Added a deployments resource to the v2 API",
        "user": "datanerd@example.com",
        "timestamp": "2019-10-08T00:15:36Z"
      }
    }'
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="powershell"
    title="Record a deployment with PowerShell"
  >
    To record a deployment with PowerShell, send a `POST` request that includes your [API key](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key) to the deployments endpoint. Attach the payload in JSON format (see [Character limits and JSON parameters](#deployment_limits)). All payload parameters are optional except `revision`.

    This example uses PowerShell version 3 or higher:

    ```
    Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://api.newrelic.com/v2/applications/<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/requirements/finding-product-id#apm">YOUR_APP_ID</a>/deployments.json -Method POST -Headers @{'X-Api-Key'='<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key">$API_KEY</a>'} -ContentType 'application/json' -Body '{
        "deployment": {
        "revision": "REVISION",
        "changelog": "Added: /v2/deployments.rb, Removed: None",
        "description": "Added a deployments resource to the v2 API",
        "user": "datanerd@example.com",
        "timestamp": "2019-10-08T00:15:36Z"
    }
    }'
    ```

    This example uses PowerShell version 2 (requires .NET framework 3.5 or higher):

    ```
    $encoding = [System.Text.Encoding]::GetEncoding("ASCII")
    $data ='{
    "deployment": {
        "revision": "REVISION",
        "changelog": "Added: /v2/deployments.rb, Removed: None",
        "description": "Added a deployments resource to the v2 API",
        "user": "datanerd@example.com",
        "timestamp": "2019-10-08T00:15:36Z"
    }
    }'
    $postData = $encoding.GetBytes($data)
    $request = [System.Net.WebRequest]::Create('https://api.newrelic.com/v2/applications/<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/requirements/finding-product-id#apm">$APP_ID</a>/deployments.json')
    $request.Method = 'POST'
    $request.Headers.add('X-Api-Key','<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key">$API_KEY</a>')
    $request.ContentType='application/json'
    $stream = $request.GetRequestStream()
    $stream.Write($postData,0,$postData.Length)
    $request.GetResponse()
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="get-list"
    title="View a list of deployments with GET"
  >
    To retrieve a list of all past deployments for your app, send a `GET` request that includes your [API key](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key) to the deployments endpoint. GET requests do not use a JSON payload.

    For example:

    ```
    curl -X GET "https://api.newrelic.com/v2/applications/<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/requirements/finding-product-id#apm">$APP_ID</a>/deployments.json" \
         -H "X-Api-Key:<a href="/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key">$API_KEY</a>" \
         -i
    ```

    <CollapserGroup>
      <Collapser
        id="sample-get-output"
        title="Sample output from GET"
      >
        This example requests a list of deployments for app ID `9999999`:

        ```
        curl -X GET "https://api.newrelic.com/v2/applications/9999999/deployments.json" \
             -H "X-Api-Key:ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwx" \
             -i
        ```

        The API returns this list of deployments:

        ```
        HTTP/1.1 200 OK
        ETag: "ABCDEFGHIJKabcdefghijk0123456789"
        Cache-Control: max-age=0, private, must-revalidate
        Content-Type: application/json
        {
          "deployments": [
            {
              "id": 1234567,
              "revision": "1234123412341234123412341234123412341234",
              "changelog": "Fixed the bugs for real this time",
              "description": "Example description two",
              "user": "Data Nerd",
              "timestamp": "2016-02-24T10:09:27-08:00",
              "links": {
                "application": 9999999
              }
            },
            {
              "id": 2345678,
              "revision": "7890789078907890789078907890789078907890",
              "changelog": "Think I fixed all the bugs",
              "description": null,
              "user": "Dren Atad",
              "timestamp": "2014-10-22T12:23:47-07:00",
              "links": {
                "application": 9999999
              }
            }
          ],
          "links": {
            "deployment.agent": "/v2/applications/{application_id}"
          }
        }
        ```
      </Collapser>
    </CollapserGroup>
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="deployment-limits"
    title="Character limits and JSON parameters"
  >
    The JSON payload can include the following parameters.

    <Callout variant="important">
      UTF-8 4 byte characters, such as Emojis and some non-Latin language glyphs, cannot be used in the deployment text.
    </Callout>

    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ width: "135px" }}>
            Parameter
          </th>

          <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
            Data type
          </th>

          <th>
            Description
          </th>
        </tr>
      </thead>

      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td>
            `revision`
          </td>

          <td>
            String, 127 character maximum
          </td>

          <td>
            **Required**. A unique ID for this deployment, visible in the [Summary](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page) page and on the [Deployments](/docs/apm/applications-menu/events/deployments-page) page. Can be any string, but is usually a version number or a Git checksum.
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            `changelog`
          </td>

          <td>
            String, 65535 character maximum
          </td>

          <td>
            **Optional**. A summary of what changed in this deployment, visible in the [Deployments](/docs/apm/applications-menu/events/deployments-page) page when you select **(selected deployment) > Change log**.
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            `description`
          </td>

          <td>
            String, 65535 character maximum
          </td>

          <td>
            **Optional**. A high-level description of this deployment, visible in the [Summary](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page) page and on the [Deployments](/docs/apm/applications-menu/events/deployments-page) page when you select an individual deployment.
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            `user`
          </td>

          <td>
            String, 31 character maximum
          </td>

          <td>
            **Optional**. A username to associate with the deployment, visible in the [Summary](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page) page and on the [Deployments](/docs/apm/applications-menu/events/deployments-page) page.
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            `timestamp`
          </td>

          <td>
            ISO 8601
          </td>

          <td>
            **Optional**. When the deployment occurred, down to the second. If not specified, the deployment will be recorded at the time when the API call was received. Timestamp requirements:

            * Must be in UTC time.
            * Must be after the most recent deployment timestamp.
            * Cannot be in the future.
            * Must be in ISO8601 format; for example, `"2019-10-08T00:15:36Z"`.
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Record deployments using the New Relic agent [#agent]

Some agents have additional methods to record deployments:

* **All agents**: Use the New Relic [REST API v2](#api).
* **C**: No SDK-specific methods. Use the [REST API](#api).
* **Go**: No agent-specific methods. Use the [REST API](#api).
* **Java**: Call the [Java agent `jar`](/docs/agents/java-agent/instrumentation/recording-deployments-java-agent).
* **.NET**: Use [PowerShell and the REST API](#powershell).
* **Node.js**: No agent-specific methods. Use the [REST API](#api).
* **PHP**: Use a [PHP script](/docs/agents/php-agent/features/recording-deployments-using-php-script).
* **Python**: Use the [`record-deploy`](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation-configuration/python-agent-admin-script#record-deploy) subcommand of the `newrelic-admin` script.
* **Ruby**: Use a [Capistrano recipe](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/features/recording-deployments-ruby-agent#capistrano3).

## Notify your team of deployments [#webhooks]

After a deployment is recorded using the REST API, you can optionally notify a webhook endpoint of the deployment.

The destination of the webhook can be your Slack instance. To use webhooks to set up a deployment notification for a Slack channel:

1. Log in to your Slack account as an admin, then go to **App directory > Manage > Apps**.
2. Search for your New Relic app, then select **Add configuration**.
3. From **Post to channel**, select an existing Slack channel or add a new channel, then **Add configuration**.
4. From the list of options, copy the webhook URL.
5. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > ([user menu](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/intro-account-settings)) > Account settings > Integrations > Deploy notifications > Webhook**.
6. Paste the Slack webhook URL, then save.
7. Optional: Send a test message.

<Callout variant="tip">
  You can also use webhooks, Slack channels, and other options for [alert notifications](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/managing-notification-channels/notification-channels-control-where-send-alerts).
</Callout>

## View deployment details [#dep_procedures]

<Callout variant="important">
  This section and the next are about how to use the current deployment markers UI. If you see a blue banner in the UI about being in a limited preview, you have access to the the new UI. In this case, switch to these new [instructions](/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/events/change-tracking/deployments-page-view-impact-your-app-users/).

</Callout>

After you configure the deployment information, you can view and drill down into details:

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > APM & services > (select an app) > Events > Deployments**.
2. Use any of New Relic's standard [user interface functions](/docs/data-analysis/user-interface-functions/standard-page-functions) to drill down into detailed information.
3. To view details for a particular event, select its **date** link.
4. To view the errors page for this deployment, select the **error** link.
5. To view details for a specific deployment if applicable, select **Change log** or **Change report**.

The **Change log** contains any detail provided through the `changelog` parameter when [recording the deployment](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/maintenance/recording-deployments). The **Change report** displays the behavior of the top ten transactions before and after the deployment.

## View performance after a deployment [#dep_timepicker]

The **Deployments** page link for individual deployments appears on the selected app's [Summary](/docs/applications-menu/applications-overview) page in the **Events** section. For time frames shorter than 14 days, a blue vertical bar on a chart will indicate a deployment. To view summary information about the deployment, mouse over the blue bar.

<Callout variant="tip">
  You can also use the **Compare with** option on your APM summary page to select a time period to compare the same data. If you enable **Compare with**, the UI does not show deployment markers.
</Callout>
