src/content/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/installation/install-infrastructure-host-integrations.mdx, before:

---
title: Install infrastructure on-host integrations
tags:
  - Integrations
  - On-host integrations
  - Installation
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: How to get and install the package that contains New Relic's infrastructure on-host integrations.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/host-integrations/installation/install-infrastructure-host-integrations
  - /docs/install-integrations-package-mysql-nginx-cassandra
  - /docs/install-integrations-package
  - /docs/infrastructure/integrations/install-integrations-package
  - /docs/infrastructure/integrations/getting-started/install-host-integrations
  - /docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/getting-started/install-host-integrations-built-new-relic
  - /docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/installation/install-host-integrations-built-new-relic
  - /docs/integrations/host-integrations/installation/install-host-integrations-built-new-relic
---

import infrastructureAgentsandNr from 'images/infrastructure_diagram_agents-and-nr.png'

import osSuse from 'images/os_icon_suse.png'

import osLinux from 'images/os_icon_linux.png'

import osWindows from 'images/os_icon_windows.png'

import osEcs from 'images/os_icon_ecs.png'

import osk8 from 'images/os_icon_k8.png'

import osRedhat from 'images/os_icon_redhat.png'

import osCentos from 'images/os_icon_centos.png'

import osAmazonLinux from 'images/os_icon_amazon-linux.png'

import osUbuntu from 'images/os_icon_ubuntu.png'

import osDebian from 'images/os_icon_debian.png'

New Relic's [on-host integrations](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/getting-started/introduction-host-integrations) are a type of infrastructure integration that collect data from core services running on your hosts, such as MySQL, Apache, or Redis, among others.

There are multiple ways to install on-host integrations depending on your setup and needs. Here we present a brief overview of all install methods and when it's more appropriate to use them.

## What do you need? [#what-need]

Please mention that data has to be pulled by the Infra Agent so for example if the below is the scenario , in case of SQL
Host 1 has NR Agent === outbound rule for 1433 port has to be allow

Host 2 has SQL Server where 1433 port === inbound rule for 1433 has to be allow

In this way the Host 1 pulls data from Host 2  

To collect data from on-host services, all you need are two things: the [infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/get-started/install-infrastructure-agent), and the [on-host integrations](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/getting-started/introduction-host-integrations). All on-host integrations require that our infrastructure agent is [installed on the host](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/get-started/install-infrastructure-agent). Besides collecting system's data, the agent acts as a forwarder for integrations's data, and can forward [logs](/docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent).

<img
  title="Agents and New Relic"
  alt="Agents and New Relic"
  src={infrastructureAgentsandNr}
/>

<figcaption>
  The infrastructure agent and its integrations collect data from the system and core services, and is able to [forward logs](/docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent) to New Relic. Backend application metrics (APM) are collected by separate [APM agents](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/introduction-apm). Notice how each integration and forwarder feed [different data types](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/new-relic-data-types) in the New Relic database (NRDB).
</figcaption>

## Quick start [#quick]

The quickest way to get started is through our guided install.

<Callout variant="tip">
  Try our [guided install](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.home?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJucjEtY29yZS5ob21lLXNjcmVlbiJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJucjEtaW5zdGFsbC1uZXdyZWxpYy5ucjEtaW5zdGFsbC1uZXdyZWxpYyIsImFjdGlvbkluZGV4IjoxfQ==) for yourself. (If you're hosted in the EU, use our [EU guided install](https://one.eu.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.home?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJucjEtY29yZS5ob21lLXNjcmVlbiJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJucjEtaW5zdGFsbC1uZXdyZWxpYy5ucjEtaW5zdGFsbC1uZXdyZWxpYyIsImFjdGlvbkluZGV4IjoxfQ==).)
</Callout>

## Pick your installation method [#install]

Your services may be running on a single physical host, on a VM, or in a container orchestrated by Kubernetes or ECS. Whatever the setup, our on-host integrations can adapt to your environment and send data to New Relic; all you have to do is choose the appropriate installation method.

### You're running services in orchestrated environments [#orchestrated]

If you are running services in containerized, orchestrated environments, choose your scenario:

* <img style={{ width: '32px', height: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle'}} class="inline" title="Kubernetes" alt="Kubernetes" src={osk8}/> [Install on-host integrations on Kubernetes](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/link-apps-services/monitor-services-running-kubernetes)
* <img style={{ width: '32px', height: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle'}} class="inline" title="ECS" alt="ECS" src={osEcs}/> [Install on-host integrations on Amazon ECS](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/monitor-services-running-amazon-ecs) (EC2 launch type)

Our on-host integrations and the ECS and Kubernetes integration can run together; see [Intro to Kubernetes integration](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/get-started/introduction-kubernetes-integration) and [Intro to ECS integration](/docs/integrations/elastic-container-service-integration/get-started/introduction-amazon-ecs-integration) to learn more.

### You're running on-premises services or services on single VMs [#standard]

If you are running services without orchestration or on-premises, choose your scenario:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="windows"
    title={<>Install using MSI files (<img src={osWindows} title="Windows Server" alt="Windows Server" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/> Windows Server)</>}
  >
    Integrations for services running on Windows Server can be installed using our .MSI installer or the official zip files. MSI install is recommended.

    1. Download the latest .MSI installer image [from our repository](http://download.newrelic.com/infrastructure_agent/windows/integrations/).
    2. In an admin account, run the install script using an absolute path.

       ```
       msiexec.exe /qn /i PATH\TO\integration-name.msi
       ```
    3. Change `C:\Program Files\New Relic\newrelic-infra\integrations.d\integration-name-config.yml.sample` to `integration-name-config.yml`, and edit according to your needs.
    4. [Restart the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/configuration/start-stop-restart-check-infrastructure-agent-status).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="apt"
    title={<>Install with apt (<img src={osDebian} title="Debian icon" alt="Debian.png" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>Debian, <img src={osUbuntu} title="ubuntu icon" alt="ubuntu icon" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>Ubuntu)</>}
  >
    To install an Infrastructure on-host integration with `apt`:

    1. If you do not already have it, [install the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/get-started/install-infrastructure-agent-new-relic) for your operating system.
    2. From the command line, run:

       ```
       sudo apt-get update
       ```
    3. Run the following command, where INTEGRATION_FILE_NAME represents the integration's file name. For more information, see the [integration's documentation](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list).

       ```
       sudo apt-get install INTEGRATION_FILE_NAME
       ```
    4. Follow additional install procedures for the [specific on-host integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="yum"
    title={<>Install with yum (<img src={osAmazonLinux} title="amazon linux.png" alt="amazon linux.png" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>Amazon Linux, <img src={osCentos} title="centos icon" alt="centos icon" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>CentOS, <img src={osRedhat} title="redhat icon" alt="redhat icon" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>RHEL)</>}
  >
    To install an integration package with `yum`:

    1. If you do not already have it, [install the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/get-started/install-infrastructure-agent-new-relic) for your operating system.
    2. From the command line, run:

       ```
       sudo yum -q makecache -y --disablerepo='*' --enablerepo='newrelic-infra'
       ```
    3. Run the following command, where INTEGRATION_FILE_NAME represents the integration's file name. For more information, see the [specific on-host integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list).

       ```
       sudo yum install INTEGRATION_FILE_NAME
       ```
    4. Follow additional install procedures for the [specific on-host integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="zypper"
    title={<>Install with zypper (<img src={osSuse} title="suse icon" alt="suse icon" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>SLES)</>}
  >
    To install an on-host integration with zypper:

    1. If you do not already have New Relic Infrastructure, [install the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/get-started/install-infrastructure-agent-new-relic) for your operating system.
    2. From the command line, run:

       ```
       sudo zypper -n ref -r newrelic-infra
       ```
    3. Run the following command, where INTEGRATION_FILE_NAME represents the integration's file name. For more information, see the [integration's documentation](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list).

       ```
       sudo zypper -n install INTEGRATION_FILE_NAME
       ```
    4. Follow additional install procedures for the [specific on-host integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="tarball"
    title={<>Install from tarball (<img src={osLinux} title="Linux" alt="Linux icon" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>Other distros)</>}
  >
    <Callout variant="tip">
      We recommend [using your distribution package manager to install the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/linux-installation/install-infrastructure-linux-using-package-manager). If you choose to [manually install the agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/linux-installation/tarball-manual-install-infrastructure-linux), you may also want to install the on-host integrations from the provided tarballs.
    </Callout>

    The manual install process is not automated. If you opt for manual install, you must place the different files in the correct folders, and ensure that the agent has all the permissions to execute the integrations.

    To install an integration from a tarball:

    1. Download the packaged integration file from the [tarball repository](https://download.newrelic.com/infrastructure_agent/binaries/linux/amd64/).
    2. Unpack the tarball file according to our [integration file structure and placement rules](/docs/integrations/integrations-sdk/getting-started/integration-file-structure-activation), so the agent is able to find the definitions, configurations, and executables of the integration.
    3. Place the binary that contains the definition file inside `newrelic-integrations` or `custom-integrations` in the [agent directory](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/linux-installation/tarball-manual-install-infrastructure-linux#agent-directory).
    4. Place the integration's config file under the [plugin directory](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/linux-installation/tarball-manual-install-infrastructure-linux#configure-plugin).

       For integrations that require our `nrjmx` tool, follow these additional instructions:

       #### Use of the New Relic JMX tool [#nrjmx]

       Some integrations (such as [JMX](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/jmx-monitoring-integration), [Cassandra](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/cassandra-monitoring-integration), and [Kafka](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/kafka-monitoring-integration)) require the `nrjmx` tool. If your integration needs this, download it from [our repository](https://download.newrelic.com/infrastructure_agent/binaries/linux/noarch/) and unpack it.

       <Callout variant="important">
         `nrjmx` requires Java 8 or higher.
       </Callout>

       For JMX integration version 2.3.3 or higher and Cassandra integration version 2.3.0 or higher, the `nrjmx` tool is included as a dependency. For this reason, when using a package manager, the `nrjmx` tool doesn't have to be installed manually.

       If you have `nrjmx` already installed and install `nri-jmx`, our JMX tool keeps the already-installed version. If you don't have `nrjmx` already installed, it gets the latest `nrjmx` release.

       By default, the `nrjmx` location is `/usr/bin/nrjmx/*`. To install in a different location, set the new path in the `NR_JMX_TOOL` environment variable.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

<InstallFeedback />

## Update the agent [#upgrade]

To keep on-host integrations up to date, follow standard procedures to [update the on-host integration package](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/installation/update-infrastructure-host-integration-package).

Commit message:

style(infra): content style edits

src/content/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/installation/install-infrastructure-host-integrations.mdx, after:

---
title: Install infrastructure on-host integrations
tags:
  - Integrations
  - On-host integrations
  - Installation
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: How to get and install the package that contains New Relic's infrastructure on-host integrations.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/host-integrations/installation/install-infrastructure-host-integrations
  - /docs/install-integrations-package-mysql-nginx-cassandra
  - /docs/install-integrations-package
  - /docs/infrastructure/integrations/install-integrations-package
  - /docs/infrastructure/integrations/getting-started/install-host-integrations
  - /docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/getting-started/install-host-integrations-built-new-relic
  - /docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/installation/install-host-integrations-built-new-relic
  - /docs/integrations/host-integrations/installation/install-host-integrations-built-new-relic
---

import infrastructureAgentsandNr from 'images/infrastructure_diagram_agents-and-nr.png'

import osSuse from 'images/os_icon_suse.png'

import osLinux from 'images/os_icon_linux.png'

import osWindows from 'images/os_icon_windows.png'

import osEcs from 'images/os_icon_ecs.png'

import osk8 from 'images/os_icon_k8.png'

import osRedhat from 'images/os_icon_redhat.png'

import osCentos from 'images/os_icon_centos.png'

import osAmazonLinux from 'images/os_icon_amazon-linux.png'

import osUbuntu from 'images/os_icon_ubuntu.png'

import osDebian from 'images/os_icon_debian.png'

New Relic's [on-host integrations](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/getting-started/introduction-host-integrations) are a type of infrastructure integration that collect data from core services running on your hosts, such as MySQL, Apache, or Redis, among others.

There are multiple ways to install on-host integrations depending on your setup and needs. Here we present a brief overview of all install methods and when it's more appropriate to use them.

## What do you need? [#what-need]

To collect data from on-host services, all you need is:
- The [infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/get-started/install-infrastructure-agent)
- The [on-host integrations](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/getting-started/introduction-host-integrations).

All on-host integrations require that our infrastructure agent is [installed on the host](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/get-started/install-infrastructure-agent). Besides collecting system's data, the agent acts as a forwarder for integrations's data, and can forward [logs](/docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent).

For example, for SQL Server:
- Host 1 with the infrastructure agent installed needs an outbound rule for port `1433`.
- Host 2 with SQL Server needs an inbound rule for port `1433`.

In this example, host 1 pulls data from host 2.

<img
  title="Agents and New Relic"
  alt="Agents and New Relic"
  src={infrastructureAgentsandNr}
/>

<figcaption>
  The infrastructure agent and its integrations collect data from the system and core services, and is able to [forward logs](/docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent) to New Relic. Backend application metrics (APM) are collected by separate [APM agents](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/introduction-apm). Notice how each integration and forwarder feed [different data types](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/new-relic-data-types) in the New Relic database (NRDB).
</figcaption>

## Quick start [#quick]

The quickest way to get started is through our guided install.

<Callout variant="tip">
  Try our [guided install](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.home?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJucjEtY29yZS5ob21lLXNjcmVlbiJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJucjEtaW5zdGFsbC1uZXdyZWxpYy5ucjEtaW5zdGFsbC1uZXdyZWxpYyIsImFjdGlvbkluZGV4IjoxfQ==) for yourself. (If you're hosted in the EU, use our [EU guided install](https://one.eu.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.home?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJucjEtY29yZS5ob21lLXNjcmVlbiJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJucjEtaW5zdGFsbC1uZXdyZWxpYy5ucjEtaW5zdGFsbC1uZXdyZWxpYyIsImFjdGlvbkluZGV4IjoxfQ==).)
</Callout>

## Pick your installation method [#install]

Your services may be running on a single physical host, on a VM, or in a container orchestrated by Kubernetes or ECS. Whatever the setup, our on-host integrations can adapt to your environment and send data to New Relic; all you have to do is choose the appropriate installation method.

### You're running services in orchestrated environments [#orchestrated]

If you are running services in containerized, orchestrated environments, choose your scenario:

* <img style={{ width: '32px', height: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle'}} class="inline" title="Kubernetes" alt="Kubernetes" src={osk8}/> [Install on-host integrations on Kubernetes](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/link-apps-services/monitor-services-running-kubernetes)
* <img style={{ width: '32px', height: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle'}} class="inline" title="ECS" alt="ECS" src={osEcs}/> [Install on-host integrations on Amazon ECS](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/monitor-services-running-amazon-ecs) (EC2 launch type)

Our on-host integrations and the ECS and Kubernetes integration can run together; see [Intro to Kubernetes integration](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/get-started/introduction-kubernetes-integration) and [Intro to ECS integration](/docs/integrations/elastic-container-service-integration/get-started/introduction-amazon-ecs-integration) to learn more.

### You're running on-premises services or services on single VMs [#standard]

If you are running services without orchestration or on-premises, choose your scenario:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="windows"
    title={<>Install using MSI files (<img src={osWindows} title="Windows Server" alt="Windows Server" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/> Windows Server)</>}
  >
    Integrations for services running on Windows Server can be installed using our .MSI installer or the official zip files. MSI install is recommended.

    1. Download the latest .MSI installer image [from our repository](http://download.newrelic.com/infrastructure_agent/windows/integrations/).
    2. In an admin account, run the install script using an absolute path.

       ```
       msiexec.exe /qn /i PATH\TO\integration-name.msi
       ```
    3. Change `C:\Program Files\New Relic\newrelic-infra\integrations.d\integration-name-config.yml.sample` to `integration-name-config.yml`, and edit according to your needs.
    4. [Restart the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/configuration/start-stop-restart-check-infrastructure-agent-status).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="apt"
    title={<>Install with apt (<img src={osDebian} title="Debian icon" alt="Debian.png" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>Debian, <img src={osUbuntu} title="ubuntu icon" alt="ubuntu icon" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>Ubuntu)</>}
  >
    To install an Infrastructure on-host integration with `apt`:

    1. If you do not already have it, [install the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/get-started/install-infrastructure-agent-new-relic) for your operating system.
    2. From the command line, run:

       ```
       sudo apt-get update
       ```
    3. Run the following command, where INTEGRATION_FILE_NAME represents the integration's file name. For more information, see the [integration's documentation](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list).

       ```
       sudo apt-get install INTEGRATION_FILE_NAME
       ```
    4. Follow additional install procedures for the [specific on-host integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="yum"
    title={<>Install with yum (<img src={osAmazonLinux} title="amazon linux.png" alt="amazon linux.png" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>Amazon Linux, <img src={osCentos} title="centos icon" alt="centos icon" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>CentOS, <img src={osRedhat} title="redhat icon" alt="redhat icon" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>RHEL)</>}
  >
    To install an integration package with `yum`:

    1. If you do not already have it, [install the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/get-started/install-infrastructure-agent-new-relic) for your operating system.
    2. From the command line, run:

       ```
       sudo yum -q makecache -y --disablerepo='*' --enablerepo='newrelic-infra'
       ```
    3. Run the following command, where INTEGRATION_FILE_NAME represents the integration's file name. For more information, see the [specific on-host integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list).

       ```
       sudo yum install INTEGRATION_FILE_NAME
       ```
    4. Follow additional install procedures for the [specific on-host integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="zypper"
    title={<>Install with zypper (<img src={osSuse} title="suse icon" alt="suse icon" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>SLES)</>}
  >
    To install an on-host integration with zypper:

    1. If you do not already have New Relic Infrastructure, [install the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/get-started/install-infrastructure-agent-new-relic) for your operating system.
    2. From the command line, run:

       ```
       sudo zypper -n ref -r newrelic-infra
       ```
    3. Run the following command, where INTEGRATION_FILE_NAME represents the integration's file name. For more information, see the [integration's documentation](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list).

       ```
       sudo zypper -n install INTEGRATION_FILE_NAME
       ```
    4. Follow additional install procedures for the [specific on-host integration](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="tarball"
    title={<>Install from tarball (<img src={osLinux} title="Linux" alt="Linux icon" style={{ height: '32px', width: '32px', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}/>Other distros)</>}
  >
    <Callout variant="tip">
      We recommend [using your distribution package manager to install the infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/linux-installation/install-infrastructure-linux-using-package-manager). If you choose to [manually install the agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/linux-installation/tarball-manual-install-infrastructure-linux), you may also want to install the on-host integrations from the provided tarballs.
    </Callout>

    The manual install process is not automated. If you opt for manual install, you must place the different files in the correct folders, and ensure that the agent has all the permissions to execute the integrations.

    To install an integration from a tarball:

    1. Download the packaged integration file from the [tarball repository](https://download.newrelic.com/infrastructure_agent/binaries/linux/amd64/).
    2. Unpack the tarball file according to our [integration file structure and placement rules](/docs/integrations/integrations-sdk/getting-started/integration-file-structure-activation), so the agent is able to find the definitions, configurations, and executables of the integration.
    3. Place the binary that contains the definition file inside `newrelic-integrations` or `custom-integrations` in the [agent directory](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/linux-installation/tarball-manual-install-infrastructure-linux#agent-directory).
    4. Place the integration's config file under the [plugin directory](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/linux-installation/tarball-manual-install-infrastructure-linux#configure-plugin).

       For integrations that require our `nrjmx` tool, follow these additional instructions:

       #### Use of the New Relic JMX tool [#nrjmx]

       Some integrations (such as [JMX](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/jmx-monitoring-integration), [Cassandra](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/cassandra-monitoring-integration), and [Kafka](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/kafka-monitoring-integration)) require the `nrjmx` tool. If your integration needs this, download it from [our repository](https://download.newrelic.com/infrastructure_agent/binaries/linux/noarch/) and unpack it.

       <Callout variant="important">
         `nrjmx` requires Java 8 or higher.
       </Callout>

       For JMX integration version 2.3.3 or higher and Cassandra integration version 2.3.0 or higher, the `nrjmx` tool is included as a dependency. For this reason, when using a package manager, the `nrjmx` tool doesn't have to be installed manually.

       If you have `nrjmx` already installed and install `nri-jmx`, our JMX tool keeps the already-installed version. If you don't have `nrjmx` already installed, it gets the latest `nrjmx` release.

       By default, the `nrjmx` location is `/usr/bin/nrjmx/*`. To install in a different location, set the new path in the `NR_JMX_TOOL` environment variable.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

<InstallFeedback />

## Update the agent [#upgrade]

To keep on-host integrations up to date, follow standard procedures to [update the on-host integration package](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/installation/update-infrastructure-host-integration-package).
