src/content/docs/apm/agents/python-agent/configuration/distributed-tracing-python-agent.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Distributed tracing for your Python services'
tags:
  - Understand dependencies
  - Distributed tracing
  - Enable and configure
metaDescription: How to enable distributed tracing or Infinite Tracing for the APM Python agent.
---

import apmPython from 'images/apm_logo_python.png'

Distributed tracing allows you to see the entire journey of your requests throughout a [distributed system](/docs/distributed-tracing/concepts/introduction-distributed-tracing). For the Python agent, we offer two types of distributed tracing (for more details, see [How span sampling works](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/get-started/how-new-relic-distributed-tracing-works#sampling)):

* Standard (head-based sampling): Before any traces arrive, we determine a set percentage of traces to accept and analyze. This gives you a solid starting point to see how tracing can help you. It is turned on by default in Python agents 7.0.0.166 and higher.

* Infinite Tracing (tail-based sampling): Our cloud-based service accepts all your traces and then sorts through them to find the most important. After you set up standard tracing, we recommend you add this option because it analyzes all of your traces and gives you configuration options to sample the traces that matter most to you.

All the steps you need to get started with distributed tracing are right here:

* [New Python agents:](#new-agents) Steps for head- and tail-based sampling for new agent installations
* [Older Python agents:](#older-agents) Tracing options if you have older Python agents
* [Manual instrumentation:](#manual-instrumentation) Tips if automatic instrumentation doesn't work

## New Python agents [#new-agents]

Whether you just want to try out standard distributed tracing (head-based sampling) or also want to set up Infinite Tracing (tail-based sampling), you need to start by setting up standard tracing. We'll get you through the APM agent installation to get head-based sampling going. After that, you can set up Infinite Tracing, which is optional but recommended.

### Install an agent to get standard distributed tracing [#quick-start-apm]

This is the best approach to set up [standard distributed tracing](/docs/distributed-tracing/concepts/how-new-relic-distributed-tracing-works/#head-based) if you haven't installed any APM agents for your services yet, or if you want to instrument additional services.

If you already have some services instrumented with this APM agent, and you want to include them in distributed tracing, you'll need to manually enable distributed tracing for each service. See [Options for older Python agents](#older-agents).

<Callout variant="tip">
  You'll need a New Relic account to set up distributed tracing. If you don't already have one, you can quickly [create a free account](https://newrelic.com/signup).
</Callout>

#### Step 1. Identify services [#identify]

Figure out which services you want to instrument so they each send trace data to New Relic.

#### Step 2. Instrument each service with an APM agent [#update-agents]

You'll repeat the agent installation routine for each service involved in your transactions. If some of your services use other languages, simply repeat the [installation steps](/docs/distributed-tracing/enable-configure/quick-start) for those languages.

To start the installation routine, click the tile below. When you are finished installing each agent, return here to see tips for [viewing your traces](#view-traces).

<TechTileGrid>
  <TechTile
    name="Start installation"
    variant="TechTile"
    to="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJ0dWNzb24ucGxnLWluc3RydW1lbnQtZXZlcnl0aGluZyJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJzZXR1cC1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1weXRob24taW50ZWdyYXRpb24iLCJhY2NvdW50SWQiOjI2NDA0MDl9&platform[accountId]=2498654&platform[timeRange][duration]=1800000&platform[$isFallbackTimeRange]=true"
    icon={<img src={apmPython} alt="Python"/>}
  />
</TechTileGrid>

### Step 3. View traces [#view-traces]

After you instrument each of your services with APM agents, generate some traffic in your application so we can capture some traces. Here are two ways to view your traces in the UI:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="entity-explorer"
    title="View traces that include a specific service"
  >
    Here's one way you can see traces for a particular service:

    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > APM & services**.
    2. Click your entity (service).
    3. In the left pane's **Monitor** section, click **Distributed tracing**.
    4. For details, click on an individual trace. If **Group similar traces** is on in the top menu, click on a trace group, and then click on an individual trace.
    5. If you don't see the traces you want, you can filter by the `trace.id`.
  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="cross-acct-traces"
    title="View traces across accounts"
  >
    To see traces that cross accounts:

    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Traces**.
    2. Select your entity (service) in the left pane.
    3. For details, click on an individual trace. If **Group similar traces** is on in the top menu, click on a trace group, and then click on an individual trace.
    4. If you don't see the traces you want, you can filter by the `trace.id`.
  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="logs-context"
    title="Examine logs related to traces"
  >
    You can bring your logs and tracing details together to make troubleshooting easier and faster. With [logs in context](/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents/), you can see log messages alongside traces in the New Relic UI.

    After you've located an interesting trace using the steps in [View traces that include a specific service](#entity-explorer) or [View traces across accounts](#cross-acct-traces), do the following:

    1. If you've enabled logs in context, click on the **Logs** tab (next to **Trace details**).
    2. To view details related to an individual log, click directly on the message.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

For more help finding your traces in the UI:

* [Understand and use the distributed tracing UI](/docs/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-ui)
* [Query distributed trace data](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/query-distributed-trace-data)

### Set up Infinite Tracing (recommended) [#infinite-tracing]

Standard distributed tracing for APM agents ([above](#quick-start-apm)) captures up to 10% of your traces, but if you want us to analyze all your data and find the most relevant traces, you can set up Infinite Tracing.

<Callout variant="tip">
  To learn more about this feature, see [Infinite Tracing](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/introduction-infinite-tracing).
</Callout>

Before beginning, first ensure you meet [the requirements](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/introduction-infinite-tracing#requirements).

#### Step 1. Complete the new agent installation [#install-agents-first]

The Infinite Tracing setup builds on the instrumentation step from the [new agent installation](#quick-start-apm) for standard distributed tracing. After you finish installing the agents, continue with the trace observer setup.

### Step 2. Set up the trace observer [#provision-trace-observer]

The trace observer is a New Relic AWS-based service that collects and analyzes all your traces. Follow the instructions in [Set up trace observer](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/set-trace-observer). When you're done, return here with your trace observer information and continue with the next step to configure the agent.

#### Step 3: Configure the agent for Infinite Tracing [#configure-agent-inf]

Infinite Tracing configuration settings include the standard distributed tracing plus information about the trace observer. Note that server-side configuration is not available for Infinite Tracing.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="python-config"
    title="Python Infinite Tracing configuration"
  >
    Here's an overview of the settings. For more help with configuration, see [Python agent configuration](/docs/agents/python-agent/configuration/python-agent-configuration#distributed-tracing-settings)

    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
            Type
          </th>

          <th>
            Required configuration
          </th>
        </tr>
      </thead>

      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td>
            Infinite Tracing
          </td>

          <td>
            Pull down the libraries with this installation command, and then set up the configuration file or environment variables:

            ```
            pip install newrelic[infinite-tracing]
            ```

            Configuration options:

            Configuration file (`newrelic.ini`):

            ```
            distributed_tracing.enabled = true
            infinite_tracing.trace_observer_host= YOUR_TRACE_OBSERVER_HOST
            ```

            Environment variables:

            ```
            NEW_RELIC_DISTRIBUTED_TRACING_ENABLED=true
            NEW_RELIC_INFINITE_TRACING_TRACE_OBSERVER_HOST="<a href="/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/set-trace-observer#ui-endpoints">YOUR_TRACE_OBSERVER_HOST</a>"
            ```
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

<Callout variant="tip">
  If you need help with proxy configuration, see [Proxy support](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/other-requirements/infinite-tracing-proxy-support).
</Callout>

#### Step 4. (Optional) Customize Infinite Tracing [#customize-inf]

After you add the agent configuration settings, you should start seeing data in the New Relic UI. After you spend some time analyzing your data, you may want to adjust some of the features of Infinite Tracing:

* [Configure trace observer monitoring](/docs/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/infinite-tracing-configure-trace-observer-monitoring)
* [Configure span attribute trace filter](/docs/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/infinite-tracing-configure-span-attribute-trace-filter)
* [Configure random trace filter](/docs/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/infinite-tracing-configure-random-trace-filter)

## Options for older Python agents [#older-agents]

If you have older Python agents, confirm the distributed tracing features you want are supported before enabling it.

### Compatibility guide

After reviewing the compatibility information below, see [Configure your older Python agents](#configure-agents).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="python-version"
    title="Python agent compatibility"
  >
    [Install](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation/standard-python-agent-install) or [update](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation-configuration/upgrade-python-agent) to the required Python agent version. For best results, update to the [latest Python agent version](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/python-release-notes).

    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
            Option
          </th>

          <th>
            Python agent version
          </th>
        </tr>
      </thead>

      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td>
            Standard distributed tracing
          </td>

          <td>
            4.2.0.100 or higher

            With W3C Trace Context: 5.6 or higher
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            Infinite Tracing
          </td>

          <td>
            5.12.0.140 (includes W3C Trace Context)

            Supported environments: CPython only (pypy is unsupported)
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Configure your older Python agents [#configure-agents]

See the settings below to enable distributed tracing.

<Callout variant="tip">
If you've been using an older agent without distributed tracing, before turning on distributed tracing, check out [Impacts to APM](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/getting-started/transition-guide-distributed-tracing).
</Callout>

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="python-config-standard"
    title="Python agent configuration"
  >
    Here's an overview of the settings. For more help with configuration, see [Python agent configuration](/docs/apm/agents/python-agent/configuration/python-agent-configuration#dt-main).

    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
            Type
          </th>

          <th>
            Required configuration
          </th>
        </tr>
      </thead>

      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td>
            Standard distributed tracing
          </td>

          <td>
            Configuration file (`newrelic.ini`):

            ```
            distributed_tracing.enabled = true
            ```

            Environment variable:

            ```
            NEW_RELIC_DISTRIBUTED_TRACING_ENABLED=true
            ```
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            Infinite Tracing
          </td>
          <td>
            If your older agent supports Infinite Tracing, see the configuration steps [above](#infinite-tracing).
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Manual instrumentation (If automatic instrumentation doesn't work) [#manual-instrumentation]

**Recommendation:** Before performing any custom instrumentation, read:

* [How distributed tracing works](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/getting-started/how-new-relic-distributed-tracing-works)
* [Troubleshoot missing data](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-missing-trace-data)

If a service is not passing the trace header to other services, you can use the distributed tracing payload APIs to instrument the [calling service](#calling-service) and the [called service](#called-service). The calling service uses an API call to generate a payload, which is accepted by the called service.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="calling-service"
    title="Instrument the calling service"
  >
    To instrument the calling service:

    1. Ensure the [version of the APM agent](#compatibility-requirements) that monitors the calling service supports distributed tracing.
    2. Invoke the agent API call for generating a distributed trace payload (see the [Python agent API](/docs/agents/python-agent/python-agent-api/create_distributed_trace_payload)).
      <Callout variant="important">
         To maintain proper ordering of spans in a trace, ensure you **generate the payload in the context of the span that sends it**.
      </Callout>
    3. Add that payload to the call made to the destination service (for example, in a header).
    4. (Optional) Identify the call as an external call (see the [Python agent API](/docs/agents/python-agent/python-agent-api/external-trace)).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="called-service"
    title="Instrument the called service"
  >
    To instrument the called service:

    1. Ensure the [version of the APM agent](#compatibility-requirements) that monitors the called service supports distributed tracing.
    2. If the New Relic agent on the called service does not identify a New Relic transaction, use the agent API to declare a transaction. Here's one way to tell that a transaction is not in progress: when `transaction = current_transaction()` is run, `transaction` is `None`. Or, if `result = accept_distributed_trace_payload(payload)` is run, then the result is `False`.

    Use [`background_task`](/docs/agents/python-agent/python-agent-api/background_task) to report a [non-web transaction](/docs/apm/transactions/intro-transactions/monitor-background-processes-other-non-web-transactions#define). For more on Python instrumentation, see [Monitor transactions and segments](/docs/agents/python-agent/api-guides/guide-using-python-agent-api#transaction-segments).

    3. Extract the payload from the call that you received (for example, in a header).
    4. Invoke the call for accepting the payload (see the [Python agent API](/docs/agents/python-agent/python-agent-api/accept_distributed_trace_payload).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

Commit message:

Add Python infinite tracing batching and compression settings.

src/content/docs/apm/agents/python-agent/configuration/distributed-tracing-python-agent.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Distributed tracing for your Python services'
tags:
  - Understand dependencies
  - Distributed tracing
  - Enable and configure
metaDescription: How to enable distributed tracing or Infinite Tracing for the APM Python agent.
---

import apmPython from 'images/apm_logo_python.png'

Distributed tracing allows you to see the entire journey of your requests throughout a [distributed system](/docs/distributed-tracing/concepts/introduction-distributed-tracing). For the Python agent, we offer two types of distributed tracing (for more details, see [How span sampling works](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/get-started/how-new-relic-distributed-tracing-works#sampling)):

* Standard (head-based sampling): Before any traces arrive, we determine a set percentage of traces to accept and analyze. This gives you a solid starting point to see how tracing can help you. It is turned on by default in Python agents 7.0.0.166 and higher.

* Infinite Tracing (tail-based sampling): Our cloud-based service accepts all your traces and then sorts through them to find the most important. After you set up standard tracing, we recommend you add this option because it analyzes all of your traces and gives you configuration options to sample the traces that matter most to you.

All the steps you need to get started with distributed tracing are right here:

* [New Python agents:](#new-agents) Steps for head- and tail-based sampling for new agent installations
* [Older Python agents:](#older-agents) Tracing options if you have older Python agents
* [Manual instrumentation:](#manual-instrumentation) Tips if automatic instrumentation doesn't work

## New Python agents [#new-agents]

Whether you just want to try out standard distributed tracing (head-based sampling) or also want to set up Infinite Tracing (tail-based sampling), you need to start by setting up standard tracing. We'll get you through the APM agent installation to get head-based sampling going. After that, you can set up Infinite Tracing, which is optional but recommended.

### Install an agent to get standard distributed tracing [#quick-start-apm]

This is the best approach to set up [standard distributed tracing](/docs/distributed-tracing/concepts/how-new-relic-distributed-tracing-works/#head-based) if you haven't installed any APM agents for your services yet, or if you want to instrument additional services.

If you already have some services instrumented with this APM agent, and you want to include them in distributed tracing, you'll need to manually enable distributed tracing for each service. See [Options for older Python agents](#older-agents).

<Callout variant="tip">
  You'll need a New Relic account to set up distributed tracing. If you don't already have one, you can quickly [create a free account](https://newrelic.com/signup).
</Callout>

#### Step 1. Identify services [#identify]

Figure out which services you want to instrument so they each send trace data to New Relic.

#### Step 2. Instrument each service with an APM agent [#update-agents]

You'll repeat the agent installation routine for each service involved in your transactions. If some of your services use other languages, simply repeat the [installation steps](/docs/distributed-tracing/enable-configure/quick-start) for those languages.

To start the installation routine, click the tile below. When you are finished installing each agent, return here to see tips for [viewing your traces](#view-traces).

<TechTileGrid>
  <TechTile
    name="Start installation"
    variant="TechTile"
    to="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJ0dWNzb24ucGxnLWluc3RydW1lbnQtZXZlcnl0aGluZyJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJzZXR1cC1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1weXRob24taW50ZWdyYXRpb24iLCJhY2NvdW50SWQiOjI2NDA0MDl9&platform[accountId]=2498654&platform[timeRange][duration]=1800000&platform[$isFallbackTimeRange]=true"
    icon={<img src={apmPython} alt="Python"/>}
  />
</TechTileGrid>

### Step 3. View traces [#view-traces]

After you instrument each of your services with APM agents, generate some traffic in your application so we can capture some traces. Here are two ways to view your traces in the UI:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="entity-explorer"
    title="View traces that include a specific service"
  >
    Here's one way you can see traces for a particular service:

    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > APM & services**.
    2. Click your entity (service).
    3. In the left pane's **Monitor** section, click **Distributed tracing**.
    4. For details, click on an individual trace. If **Group similar traces** is on in the top menu, click on a trace group, and then click on an individual trace.
    5. If you don't see the traces you want, you can filter by the `trace.id`.
  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="cross-acct-traces"
    title="View traces across accounts"
  >
    To see traces that cross accounts:

    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Traces**.
    2. Select your entity (service) in the left pane.
    3. For details, click on an individual trace. If **Group similar traces** is on in the top menu, click on a trace group, and then click on an individual trace.
    4. If you don't see the traces you want, you can filter by the `trace.id`.
  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="logs-context"
    title="Examine logs related to traces"
  >
    You can bring your logs and tracing details together to make troubleshooting easier and faster. With [logs in context](/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents/), you can see log messages alongside traces in the New Relic UI.

    After you've located an interesting trace using the steps in [View traces that include a specific service](#entity-explorer) or [View traces across accounts](#cross-acct-traces), do the following:

    1. If you've enabled logs in context, click on the **Logs** tab (next to **Trace details**).
    2. To view details related to an individual log, click directly on the message.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

For more help finding your traces in the UI:

* [Understand and use the distributed tracing UI](/docs/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-ui)
* [Query distributed trace data](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/query-distributed-trace-data)

### Set up Infinite Tracing (recommended) [#infinite-tracing]

Standard distributed tracing for APM agents ([above](#quick-start-apm)) captures up to 10% of your traces, but if you want us to analyze all your data and find the most relevant traces, you can set up Infinite Tracing.

<Callout variant="tip">
  To learn more about this feature, see [Infinite Tracing](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/introduction-infinite-tracing).
</Callout>

Before beginning, first ensure you meet [the requirements](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/introduction-infinite-tracing#requirements).

#### Step 1. Complete the new agent installation [#install-agents-first]

The Infinite Tracing setup builds on the instrumentation step from the [new agent installation](#quick-start-apm) for standard distributed tracing. After you finish installing the agents, continue with the trace observer setup.

### Step 2. Set up the trace observer [#provision-trace-observer]

The trace observer is a New Relic AWS-based service that collects and analyzes all your traces. Follow the instructions in [Set up trace observer](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/set-trace-observer). When you're done, return here with your trace observer information and continue with the next step to configure the agent.

#### Step 3: Configure the agent for Infinite Tracing [#configure-agent-inf]

Infinite Tracing configuration settings include the standard distributed tracing plus information about the trace observer. Note that server-side configuration is not available for Infinite Tracing.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="python-config"
    title="Python Infinite Tracing configuration"
  >
    Here's an overview of the settings. For more help with configuration, see [Python agent configuration](/docs/agents/python-agent/configuration/python-agent-configuration#distributed-tracing-settings)

    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
            Type
          </th>

          <th>
            Required configuration
          </th>
        </tr>
      </thead>

      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td>
            Infinite Tracing
          </td>

          <td>
            Pull down the libraries with this installation command, and then set up the configuration file or environment variables:

            ```
            pip install newrelic[infinite-tracing]
            ```

            General configuration options:

            Configuration file (`newrelic.ini`):

            ```
            distributed_tracing.enabled = true
            infinite_tracing.trace_observer_host = YOUR_TRACE_OBSERVER_HOST
            ```

            Environment variables:

            ```
            NEW_RELIC_DISTRIBUTED_TRACING_ENABLED = true
            NEW_RELIC_INFINITE_TRACING_TRACE_OBSERVER_HOST = "<a href="/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/set-trace-observer#ui-endpoints">YOUR_TRACE_OBSERVER_HOST</a>"
            ```

            Batching and compression configuration options:
            As of v8.7.0, the Python agent supports batching and compression. Both settings are defaulted to true and can be toggled with the following options:

            Configuration file (`newrelic.ini`):

            ```
            infinite_tracing.batching = true # Send spans to the trace observer in batches rather than one by one
            infinite_tracing.compression = true # Enable gzip compression for data sent via infinite tracing
            ```

            Environment variables:

            ```
            NEW_RELIC_INFINITE_TRACING_BATCHING = true
            NEW_RELIC_INFINITE_TRACING_COMPRESSION = true
            ```

          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

<Callout variant="tip">
  If you need help with proxy configuration, see [Proxy support](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/other-requirements/infinite-tracing-proxy-support).
</Callout>

#### Step 4. (Optional) Customize Infinite Tracing [#customize-inf]

After you add the agent configuration settings, you should start seeing data in the New Relic UI. After you spend some time analyzing your data, you may want to adjust some of the features of Infinite Tracing:

* [Configure trace observer monitoring](/docs/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/infinite-tracing-configure-trace-observer-monitoring)
* [Configure span attribute trace filter](/docs/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/infinite-tracing-configure-span-attribute-trace-filter)
* [Configure random trace filter](/docs/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/infinite-tracing-configure-random-trace-filter)

## Options for older Python agents [#older-agents]

If you have older Python agents, confirm the distributed tracing features you want are supported before enabling it.

### Compatibility guide

After reviewing the compatibility information below, see [Configure your older Python agents](#configure-agents).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="python-version"
    title="Python agent compatibility"
  >
    [Install](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation/standard-python-agent-install) or [update](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation-configuration/upgrade-python-agent) to the required Python agent version. For best results, update to the [latest Python agent version](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/python-release-notes).

    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
            Option
          </th>

          <th>
            Python agent version
          </th>
        </tr>
      </thead>

      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td>
            Standard distributed tracing
          </td>

          <td>
            4.2.0.100 or higher

            With W3C Trace Context: 5.6 or higher
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            Infinite Tracing
          </td>

          <td>
            5.12.0.140 (includes W3C Trace Context)

            Supported environments: CPython only (pypy is unsupported)
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Configure your older Python agents [#configure-agents]

See the settings below to enable distributed tracing.

<Callout variant="tip">
If you've been using an older agent without distributed tracing, before turning on distributed tracing, check out [Impacts to APM](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/getting-started/transition-guide-distributed-tracing).
</Callout>

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="python-config-standard"
    title="Python agent configuration"
  >
    Here's an overview of the settings. For more help with configuration, see [Python agent configuration](/docs/apm/agents/python-agent/configuration/python-agent-configuration#dt-main).

    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
            Type
          </th>

          <th>
            Required configuration
          </th>
        </tr>
      </thead>

      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td>
            Standard distributed tracing
          </td>

          <td>
            Configuration file (`newrelic.ini`):

            ```
            distributed_tracing.enabled = true
            ```

            Environment variable:

            ```
            NEW_RELIC_DISTRIBUTED_TRACING_ENABLED=true
            ```
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            Infinite Tracing
          </td>
          <td>
            If your older agent supports Infinite Tracing, see the configuration steps [above](#infinite-tracing).
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Manual instrumentation (If automatic instrumentation doesn't work) [#manual-instrumentation]

**Recommendation:** Before performing any custom instrumentation, read:

* [How distributed tracing works](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/getting-started/how-new-relic-distributed-tracing-works)
* [Troubleshoot missing data](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-missing-trace-data)

If a service is not passing the trace header to other services, you can use the distributed tracing payload APIs to instrument the [calling service](#calling-service) and the [called service](#called-service). The calling service uses an API call to generate a payload, which is accepted by the called service.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="calling-service"
    title="Instrument the calling service"
  >
    To instrument the calling service:

    1. Ensure the [version of the APM agent](#compatibility-requirements) that monitors the calling service supports distributed tracing.
    2. Invoke the agent API call for generating a distributed trace payload (see the [Python agent API](/docs/agents/python-agent/python-agent-api/create_distributed_trace_payload)).
      <Callout variant="important">
         To maintain proper ordering of spans in a trace, ensure you **generate the payload in the context of the span that sends it**.
      </Callout>
    3. Add that payload to the call made to the destination service (for example, in a header).
    4. (Optional) Identify the call as an external call (see the [Python agent API](/docs/agents/python-agent/python-agent-api/external-trace)).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="called-service"
    title="Instrument the called service"
  >
    To instrument the called service:

    1. Ensure the [version of the APM agent](#compatibility-requirements) that monitors the called service supports distributed tracing.
    2. If the New Relic agent on the called service does not identify a New Relic transaction, use the agent API to declare a transaction. Here's one way to tell that a transaction is not in progress: when `transaction = current_transaction()` is run, `transaction` is `None`. Or, if `result = accept_distributed_trace_payload(payload)` is run, then the result is `False`.

    Use [`background_task`](/docs/agents/python-agent/python-agent-api/background_task) to report a [non-web transaction](/docs/apm/transactions/intro-transactions/monitor-background-processes-other-non-web-transactions#define). For more on Python instrumentation, see [Monitor transactions and segments](/docs/agents/python-agent/api-guides/guide-using-python-agent-api#transaction-segments).

    3. Extract the payload from the call that you received (for example, in a header).
    4. Invoke the call for accepting the payload (see the [Python agent API](/docs/agents/python-agent/python-agent-api/accept_distributed_trace_payload).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>
