src/content/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/add-edit-monitors.mdx, before:

---
title: Add and edit monitors
tags:
  - Synthetics
  - Synthetic monitoring
  - Using monitors
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'Synthetic monitoring: how to add or edit ping monitors, simple browser monitors, scripted browser monitors, and API test monitors.'
redirects:
  - /docs/new-relic-only/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/adding-editing-monitors
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/adding-editing-monitors
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/add-edit-monitors
  - /docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors
---

import syntheticAddMoreDataCreate from 'images/synthetic_screenshot-full_add-more-data-create.png'

import syntheticCreateMonitorPage from 'images/synthetic_screenshot-crop_Create-monitor-page.png'

import syntheticEditMonitorFromGeneral from 'images/synthetic_screenshot-full_edit-monitor-from-general.png'

import syntheticDeleteMonitor from 'images/synthetic_screenshot-crop_delete-monitor.png'

Synthetic monitors are API checks or virtual browser instances that monitor your website, recording [each check in detail](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/viewing-monitor-results). They can also:

* Capture aggregate numbers, including an [overview](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-overview-dashboard-view-monitors-performance) or [summary](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/pages/summary-page) for ping monitors.
* Provide detailed statistics for each [page resource](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-resources-dashboard-understand-load-times), and [downtime incidents](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-downtimes-dashboard-troubleshoot-downtime).
* Collect [custom response codes](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/synthetics-response-codes) for more detail on your monitor runs.

You'll be able to add and configure synthetic monitors to suit your environnment after you [create a New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup). 

## Create a monitor [#adding-monitors]

Ready to monitor your web apps with one (or several!) of our [synthetic monitors](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/types-synthetics-monitors)? The steps below walk you through the process for all our monitors. 

Keep in mind that the default timeout for a new monitor is 180 seconds.

<img
  src={syntheticAddMoreDataCreate}
  title="Find the Create a monitor page"
  alt="A screenshot that shows where to go in the UI to find the Create monitor page."
/>

<img
  src={syntheticCreateMonitorPage}
  title="Create a monitor page"
  alt="A screenshot that shows what the Create monitor page looks like."
/>
<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Add data > Synthetic monitoring**: Create a synthetic monitor so you can proactively detect and resolve outages before your customers notice.
</figcaption>

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="simple"
    title="Add a ping or simple browser monitor"
  >
    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**, then select **Synthetics**. Click <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/> [**Create monitor**](https://one.newrelic.com/synthetics-nerdlets/monitor-create) in the far right of the Explorer nav.
    2. Specify a [monitor type](#setting-type), [name](#setting-name), and URL (may be any valid HTTP or HTTPS URL).
    3. Optional: Add a **validation string** or **Advanced options**:

       * A **validation string** is available for ping and simple browser. This option enables substring monitoring for [response validation](#response-validation).
       * **Verify SSL** is available for ping and simple browser. This option verifies the validity of the SSL certificate chain. It can be duplicated by running the following syntax:

         ```
         openssl s_client -servername {YOUR_HOSTNAME} -connect {YOUR_HOSTNAME}:443 -CApath /etc/ssl/certs -verify_hostname {YOUR_HOSTNAME} > /dev/null
         ```

         If a non-zero exit code is returned, the monitor will fail.
       * The **Bypass HEAD request** option is available for ping. This option skips the default `HEAD` request and instead uses the `GET` verb with a ping check.
       * **Redirect is Failure** is available for ping. If a redirect result occurs when Redirect is Failure is enabled, your synthetic monitor will categorize the result as a failure, rather than following the redirect and checking the resulting URL.
       * **Custom Headers** can be added to ping and simple browser monitors. These headers will be added to requests submitted by the monitor.
    4. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run.
    5. Choose a [frequency](#setting-frequency) to determine how often each location will run your monitor.
    6. Optional: Set up [alert notifications](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics).
    7. Select **Create my monitor** to confirm.

       Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/new-relic-one-monitors-index).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="complex"
    title="Add a scripted browser or API test monitor"
  >
    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**, then select **Synthetics**. Click <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/> [**Create monitor**](https://one.newrelic.com/synthetics-nerdlets/monitor-create) in the far right of the Explorer nav.
    2. Specify a [monitor type](#setting-type) and [name](#setting-name).
    3. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run.
    4. Choose a [frequency](#setting-frequency) to determine how often each location will run your monitor.
    5. Optional: Set up [alert notifications](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics).
    6. Select **Next: Write your script** to create a script for your [**scripted browser**](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-synthetic-scripts) or [**API test**](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-api-tests), then select **Validate** to verify your syntax.

       <Callout variant="tip">
         For complex scripts, validation may take up to one minute.
       </Callout>
    7. Select **Create my monitor** to confirm.

       Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="stepmonitor"
    title="Add a step monitor"
  >
    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**, then select **Synthetics**. Click <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/> [**Create monitor**](https://one.newrelic.com/synthetics-nerdlets/monitor-create) located on the far right of the Explorer nav.
    2. Select step monitor as the [monitor type](#setting-type).
    3. Specify a [name](#setting-name) and choose a [frequency](#setting-frequency) to determine how often each location will run your monitor.
    4. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run.
    5. Build your monitor by selecting from the preconfigured steps at the bottom of the UI:

       * Navigate to a URL
       * Type text
       * Click an element
       * Assert text
       * Assert an element
       * Secure a credential

       Use the instructions on the right side of the UI to help locate elements by CSS class, HTML ID, link text, or XPath.
    6. Select **Save monitor** to confirm.

       Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="certificate"
    title="Add a certificate check monitor"
  >
    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**, then select **Synthetics**. Click <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/> [**Create monitor**](https://one.newrelic.com/synthetics-nerdlets/monitor-create) in the far right of the Explorer nav.
    2. Select the certificate check monitor type.
    3. Specify a [name](#setting-name) and enter the domain you'd like to monitor.
    4. Enter the number of days it takes for your certificate to expire.
    5. Select the period to determine your monitor's [frequency](#setting-frequency).
    6. Optional: Add tags to help you find this monitor later.
    7. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run, and then click **Save monitor** to confirm.

       Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="broken-links"
    title="Add a broken links monitor"
  >
    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**, then select **Synthetics**. Click <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/> [**Create monitor**](https://one.newrelic.com/synthetics-nerdlets/monitor-create) in the far right of the Explorer nav.
    2. Select the broken links check monitor type.
    3. Specify a [name](#setting-name) and enter the URL you'd like to monitor (may be any valid HTTP or HTTPS URL).
    4. Select the period to determine your monitor's [frequency](#setting-frequency).
    5. Optional: Add tags to help you find this monitor later.
    6. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run, and then click **Save monitor** to confirm.

       Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

Wanting to deploy more than a single monitor at a time? We recommend checking out the [NerdGraph API synthetic monitoring tutorial](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-synthetics-tutorial). You can automate monitor creation with API calls.

You can also create monitors with our [synthetic monitoring REST API](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-via-rest-api). For REST APIs, make a `GET` request to retrieve the configuration details of your chosen synthetic monitor. Once you've retrieved that data, use `POST` to create a "copy" of your chosen monitor.

## Edit a monitor [#editing-monitors]

<img
  src={syntheticEditMonitorFromGeneral}
  title="Edit a monitor page"
  alt="A screenshot that shows the New Relic UI when you're editing your monitor."
/>
<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Synthetic monitoring >Settings > General**: Keep your monitors up to date so New Relic is always receiving the most pertinent data.
</figcaption>

You cannot change a monitor's [type](#setting-type) after the monitor is created, but you can edit other monitor settings.

1. From the **Monitors** tab in **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Synthetics**, select the monitor you want to edit.
2. In the side menu, select a link to change the following [settings](#settings):

   * Select **Settings > General** to edit [name](#setting-name), URL, [locations](#setting-location), [frequency](#setting-frequency), and advanced options.
   * For **Scripted browser** and **API test** monitors, select **Settings > Script** to edit your monitor script.
   * For synthetic monitoring alerts, click **Manage alerts**.
3. Select **Save changes** to confirm.

<Callout variant="important">
Convert to the [new synthetics runtime](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/getting-started/new-runtime) when you edit your monitors. Make sure to update your allow lists to accept network requests from [new public IP ranges](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/administration/new-synthetic-public-minion-ips).
</Callout>

## Delete a monitor [#deleting-monitors]

<img
  src={syntheticDeleteMonitor}
  title="Edit a monitor page to delete monitor"
  alt="A screenshot of the Edit a monitor page with a red arrow that shows where someone should look to delete a monitor."
/>
<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Synthetic monitoring >Settings > General**: Delete your synthetic monitors from the Edit monitor page.
</figcaption>

You must have [Admin privileges](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/administration/user-roles-synthetic-monitoring/) in order to delete a monitor.

To delete a monitor:

1. From the **Monitors** tab in **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Synthetics**, select the monitor you want to edit.
2. From the selected monitor, select **Settings > General**.
3. Scroll to the bottom of the page and select the trash can icon.

You can also delete a monitor with our [NerdGraph API](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-synthetics-tutorial) or the [synthetic monitoring REST API](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-via-rest-api#delete-monitor).

## Monitor settings [#settings]

When configuring monitors, the following settings are available:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="setting-type"
    title="Type"
  >
    Select the type of monitor you want to create. A monitor's [type](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/types-synthetics-monitors#types-monitors) can't be changed after the monitor is created.

    * **Ping**: Specify a single URL to monitor for availability. New Relic will check this URL via HEAD or GET requests. The non-configurable [timeout](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers#waiting-elements) for this monitor is 60 seconds.
    * **Simple browser**: Specify a single URL to monitor via real browser. Once each [frequency interval](#setting-frequency), New Relic will check this URL via a Selenium-powered Google Chrome browser. The non-configurable [timeout](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers/#waiting-elements) for this monitor is 60 seconds.
    * **Scripted browser**: [Create a script](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-synthetic-scripts) to drive a Selenium-powered Google Chrome browser. The browser follows each step in the script to verify that complex behavior is working as expected (for example, searching a website, then clicking one of the search results). The non-configurable [timeout](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers#waiting-elements) for this monitor is 180 seconds.
    * **API test**: Create an API script to ensure your API endpoint is working correctly. For more information, see [Write API tests](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-api-tests). The non-configurable timeout for this monitor is 180 seconds.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-name"
    title="Monitor name"
  >
    Defines a name for the monitor. Monitor names cannot contain unencoded angle brackets (`<` and `>`). To include angle brackets in a monitor name, encode them as HTML bracket entities (`&lt;` for `<` and `&gt;` for `>`) in the UI or API.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-location"
    title="Location"
  >
    Select the locations where you want your monitor to run. Select more locations to ensure that your application is available to users around the world. If you have any [private locations](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/private-locations/private-locations-overview-monitor-internal-sites-add-new-locations), they will be listed here too. You can use the [Synthetics API `location` endpoint](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-via-rest-api#list-locations) to retrieve a list of valid locations for your account.

    Your monitor will run one check from each selected location during each [frequency interval](#setting-frequency). For example, if you select three locations and define a frequency of 15 minutes, your monitor will run three checks in each 15 minute period (or 8,640 checks per month).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-frequency"
    title="Frequency"
  >
    Select how often the monitor runs, in increments of minutes, hours, or 1 day. This frequency applies to each [location](#setting-location). For example, if you select three locations and a Frequency of **15 minutes**, your monitor will run three checks, on average every 5 minutes, in each 15 minute period (or 8,640 checks per month).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-alerts"
    title="Alerts"
  >
    Specify an email address to receive alerts when a monitor fails. Or, attach a monitor to an existing alert policy for more notification options. For more information, see [Alerting for synthetic monitoring](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="response-validation"
    title="Response Validation (optional)"
  >
    Specify text to search for on the page DOM. When using simple browser or ping [monitor types](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/getting-started/types-synthetic-monitors/#types-monitors), there is a 1MB (10^6 bytes) limit on the page load.
  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="apdex-t"
    title="Apdex T (optional)"
  >
    Specify the threshold for the **tolerable** response times for your monitor. The default value is 7 seconds (7000ms). For more information, see [Understand SLA report metrics](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/pages/synthetic-monitoring-aggregate-monitor-metrics/#understanding).
  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

## See a history of monitor changes [#track-changes]

You can use the New Relic UI to see a [history of recent changes to synthetic monitors](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/administration/audit-synthetics-account-changes) and what users changed them.

Commit message:

feat(DeviceEmulation): Added docs for synthetics device emulation

src/content/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/add-edit-monitors.mdx, after:

---
title: Add and edit monitors
tags:
  - Synthetics
  - Synthetic monitoring
  - Using monitors
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'Synthetic monitoring: how to add or edit ping monitors, simple browser monitors, scripted browser monitors, and API test monitors.'
redirects:
  - /docs/new-relic-only/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/adding-editing-monitors
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/adding-editing-monitors
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/add-edit-monitors
  - /docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors
---

import syntheticAddMoreDataCreate from 'images/synthetic_screenshot-full_add-more-data-create.png'

import syntheticCreateMonitorPage from 'images/synthetic_screenshot-crop_Create-monitor-page.png'

import syntheticEditMonitorFromGeneral from 'images/synthetic_screenshot-full_edit-monitor-from-general.png'

import syntheticDeleteMonitor from 'images/synthetic_screenshot-crop_delete-monitor.png'

Synthetic monitors are API checks or virtual browser instances that monitor your website, recording [each check in detail](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/viewing-monitor-results). They can also:

* Capture aggregate numbers, including an [overview](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-overview-dashboard-view-monitors-performance) or [summary](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/pages/summary-page) for ping monitors.
* Provide detailed statistics for each [page resource](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-resources-dashboard-understand-load-times), and [downtime incidents](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-downtimes-dashboard-troubleshoot-downtime).
* Collect [custom response codes](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/synthetics-response-codes) for more detail on your monitor runs.

You'll be able to add and configure synthetic monitors to suit your environnment after you [create a New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup). 

## Create a monitor [#adding-monitors]

Ready to monitor your web apps with one (or several!) of our [synthetic monitors](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/types-synthetics-monitors)? The steps below walk you through the process for all our monitors. 

Keep in mind that the default timeout for a new monitor is 180 seconds.

<img
  src={syntheticAddMoreDataCreate}
  title="Find the Create a monitor page"
  alt="A screenshot that shows where to go in the UI to find the Create monitor page."
/>

<img
  src={syntheticCreateMonitorPage}
  title="Create a monitor page"
  alt="A screenshot that shows what the Create monitor page looks like."
/>
<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Add data > Synthetic monitoring**: Create a synthetic monitor so you can proactively detect and resolve outages before your customers notice.
</figcaption>

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="simple"
    title="Add a ping or simple browser monitor"
  >
    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**, then select **Synthetics**. Click <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/> [**Create monitor**](https://one.newrelic.com/synthetics-nerdlets/monitor-create) in the far right of the Explorer nav.
    2. Specify a [monitor type](#setting-type), [name](#setting-name), and URL (may be any valid HTTP or HTTPS URL).
    3. Optional: Add **device emulation**, a **validation string**, or **advanced options**:

       * [Device emulation](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/device-emulation) settings, including device type and screen orientation are available for simple browser monitors.
       * A **validation string** is available for ping and simple browser. This option enables substring monitoring for [response validation](#response-validation).
       * **Verify SSL** is available for ping and simple browser. This option verifies the validity of the SSL certificate chain. It can be duplicated by running the following syntax:

         ```
         openssl s_client -servername {YOUR_HOSTNAME} -connect {YOUR_HOSTNAME}:443 -CApath /etc/ssl/certs -verify_hostname {YOUR_HOSTNAME} > /dev/null
         ```

         If a non-zero exit code is returned, the monitor will fail.
       * The **Bypass HEAD request** option is available for ping. This option skips the default `HEAD` request and instead uses the `GET` verb with a ping check.
       * **Redirect is Failure** is available for ping. If a redirect result occurs when Redirect is Failure is enabled, your synthetic monitor will categorize the result as a failure, rather than following the redirect and checking the resulting URL.
       * **Custom Headers** can be added to ping and simple browser monitors. These headers will be added to requests submitted by the monitor.
    4. Choose a [period](#setting-frequency) to determine how often each location will run your monitor.
    5. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run.
    6. Optional: Set up [alert notifications](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics).
    7. Select **Create my monitor** to confirm.

       Wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/new-relic-one-monitors-index).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="complex"
    title="Add a scripted browser or API test monitor"
  >
    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**, then select **Synthetics**. Click <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/> [**Create monitor**](https://one.newrelic.com/synthetics-nerdlets/monitor-create) in the far right of the Explorer nav.
    2. Specify a [monitor type](#setting-type) and [name](#setting-name).
    3. Choose a [period](#setting-frequency) to determine how often each location will run your monitor.
    4. Optional: Configure [device emulation](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/device-emulation) settings, including device type and screen orientation are available for scripted browser monitors.
    5. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run.
    6. Optional: Set up [alert notifications](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics).
    7. Select **Next: Write your script** to create a script for your [**scripted browser**](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-synthetic-scripts) or [**API test**](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-api-tests), then select **Validate** to verify your syntax.

       <Callout variant="tip">
         For complex scripts, validation may take up to one minute.
       </Callout>
    8. Select **Create my monitor** to confirm.

       Wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="stepmonitor"
    title="Add a step monitor"
  >
    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**, then select **Synthetics**. Click <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/> [**Create monitor**](https://one.newrelic.com/synthetics-nerdlets/monitor-create) located on the far right of the Explorer nav.
    2. Select step monitor as the [monitor type](#setting-type).
    3. Specify a [name](#setting-name) and choose a [period](#setting-frequency) to determine how often each location will run your monitor.
    4. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run.
    5. Build your monitor by selecting from the preconfigured steps at the bottom of the UI:

       * Navigate to a URL
       * Type text
       * Click an element
       * Assert text
       * Assert an element
       * Secure a credential

       Use the instructions on the right side of the UI to help locate elements by CSS class, HTML ID, link text, or XPath.
    6. Select **Save monitor** to confirm.

       Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="certificate"
    title="Add a certificate check monitor"
  >
    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**, then select **Synthetics**. Click <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/> [**Create monitor**](https://one.newrelic.com/synthetics-nerdlets/monitor-create) in the far right of the Explorer nav.
    2. Select the certificate check monitor type.
    3. Specify a [name](#setting-name) and enter the domain you'd like to monitor.
    4. Enter the number of days it takes for your certificate to expire.
    5. Select the period to determine your monitor's [frequency](#setting-frequency).
    6. Optional: Add tags to help you find this monitor later.
    7. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run, and then click **Save monitor** to confirm.

       Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="broken-links"
    title="Add a broken links monitor"
  >
    1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**, then select **Synthetics**. Click <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/> [**Create monitor**](https://one.newrelic.com/synthetics-nerdlets/monitor-create) in the far right of the Explorer nav.
    2. Select the broken links check monitor type.
    3. Specify a [name](#setting-name) and enter the URL you'd like to monitor (may be any valid HTTP or HTTPS URL).
    4. Select the period to determine your monitor's [frequency](#setting-frequency).
    5. Optional: Add tags to help you find this monitor later.
    6. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run, and then click **Save monitor** to confirm.

       Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

Wanting to deploy more than a single monitor at a time? We recommend checking out the [NerdGraph API synthetic monitoring tutorial](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-synthetics-tutorial). You can automate monitor creation with API calls.

You can also create monitors with our [synthetic monitoring REST API](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-via-rest-api). For REST APIs, make a `GET` request to retrieve the configuration details of your chosen synthetic monitor. Once you've retrieved that data, use `POST` to create a "copy" of your chosen monitor.

## Edit a monitor [#editing-monitors]

<img
  src={syntheticEditMonitorFromGeneral}
  title="Edit a monitor page"
  alt="A screenshot that shows the New Relic UI when you're editing your monitor."
/>
<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Synthetic monitoring >Settings > General**: Keep your monitors up to date so New Relic is always receiving the most pertinent data.
</figcaption>

You cannot change a monitor's [type](#setting-type) after the monitor is created, but you can edit other monitor settings.

1. From the **Monitors** tab in **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Synthetics**, select the monitor you want to edit.
2. In the side menu, select a link to change the following [settings](#settings):

   * Select **Settings > General** to edit [name](#setting-name), URL, [locations](#setting-location), [frequency](#setting-frequency), and advanced options.
   * For **Scripted browser** and **API test** monitors, select **Settings > Script** to edit your monitor script.
   * For synthetic monitoring alerts, click **Manage alerts**.
3. Select **Save changes** to confirm.

<Callout variant="important">
Convert to the [new synthetics runtime](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/getting-started/new-runtime) when you edit your monitors. Make sure to update your allow lists to accept network requests from [new public IP ranges](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/administration/new-synthetic-public-minion-ips).
</Callout>

## Delete a monitor [#deleting-monitors]

<img
  src={syntheticDeleteMonitor}
  title="Edit a monitor page to delete monitor"
  alt="A screenshot of the Edit a monitor page with a red arrow that shows where someone should look to delete a monitor."
/>
<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Synthetic monitoring >Settings > General**: Delete your synthetic monitors from the Edit monitor page.
</figcaption>

You must have [Admin privileges](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/administration/user-roles-synthetic-monitoring/) in order to delete a monitor.

To delete a monitor:

1. From the **Monitors** tab in **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Synthetics**, select the monitor you want to edit.
2. From the selected monitor, select **Settings > General**.
3. Scroll to the bottom of the page and select the trash can icon.

You can also delete a monitor with our [NerdGraph API](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-synthetics-tutorial) or the [synthetic monitoring REST API](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-via-rest-api#delete-monitor).

## Monitor settings [#settings]

When configuring monitors, the following settings are available:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="setting-type"
    title="Type"
  >
    Select the type of monitor you want to create. A monitor's [type](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/types-synthetics-monitors#types-monitors) can't be changed after the monitor is created.

    * **Ping**: Specify a single URL to monitor for availability. New Relic will check this URL via HEAD or GET requests. The non-configurable [timeout](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers#waiting-elements) for this monitor is 60 seconds.
    * **Simple browser**: Specify a single URL to monitor via real browser. Once each [frequency interval](#setting-frequency), New Relic will check this URL via a Selenium-powered Google Chrome browser. The non-configurable [timeout](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers/#waiting-elements) for this monitor is 60 seconds.
    * **Scripted browser**: [Create a script](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-synthetic-scripts) to drive a Selenium-powered Google Chrome browser. The browser follows each step in the script to verify that complex behavior is working as expected (for example, searching a website, then clicking one of the search results). The non-configurable [timeout](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers#waiting-elements) for this monitor is 180 seconds.
    * **API test**: Create an API script to ensure your API endpoint is working correctly. For more information, see [Write API tests](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-api-tests). The non-configurable timeout for this monitor is 180 seconds.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-name"
    title="Monitor name"
  >
    Defines a name for the monitor. Monitor names cannot contain unencoded angle brackets (`<` and `>`). To include angle brackets in a monitor name, encode them as HTML bracket entities (`&lt;` for `<` and `&gt;` for `>`) in the UI or API.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-location"
    title="Location"
  >
    Select the locations where you want your monitor to run. Select more locations to ensure that your application is available to users around the world. If you have any [private locations](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/private-locations/private-locations-overview-monitor-internal-sites-add-new-locations), they will be listed here too. You can use the [Synthetics API `location` endpoint](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-via-rest-api#list-locations) to retrieve a list of valid locations for your account.

    Your monitor will run one check from each selected location during each [frequency interval](#setting-frequency). For example, if you select three locations and define a frequency of 15 minutes, your monitor will run three checks in each 15 minute period (or 8,640 checks per month).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-frequency"
    title="Frequency"
  >
    Select how often the monitor runs, in increments of minutes, hours, or 1 day. This frequency applies to each [location](#setting-location). For example, if you select three locations and a Frequency of **15 minutes**, your monitor will run three checks, on average every 5 minutes, in each 15 minute period (or 8,640 checks per month).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-alerts"
    title="Alerts"
  >
    Specify an email address to receive alerts when a monitor fails. Or, attach a monitor to an existing alert policy for more notification options. For more information, see [Alerting for synthetic monitoring](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="response-validation"
    title="Response Validation (optional)"
  >
    Specify text to search for on the page DOM. When using simple browser or ping [monitor types](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/getting-started/types-synthetic-monitors/#types-monitors), there is a 1MB (10^6 bytes) limit on the page load.
  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="apdex-t"
    title="Apdex T (optional)"
  >
    Specify the threshold for the **tolerable** response times for your monitor. The default value is 7 seconds (7000ms). For more information, see [Understand SLA report metrics](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/pages/synthetic-monitoring-aggregate-monitor-metrics/#understanding).
  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

## See a history of monitor changes [#track-changes]

You can use the New Relic UI to see a [history of recent changes to synthetic monitors](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/administration/audit-synthetics-account-changes) and what users changed them.
