src/content/docs/logs/logs-context/logs-in-context.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction to logs in context
tags:
  - Logs
  - Enable log management in New Relic
  - Configure logs in context
metaDescription: New Relic logs in context displays your logs in assorted New Relic experiences, helping you more easily correlate and troubleshoot issues.
redirects:
  - /docs/enable-logs-context-logs
  - /docs/enable-apm-logs-context-logs
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs-context/enable-apm-logs-context-logs
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs-context/enable-logs-context-apm-agents
  - /node/36951
  - /docs/logs/enable-logs/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs-context
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/apm-integration
  - /docs/logs/log-monitoring/apm-integration
  - /docs/logs/log-management/apm-integration
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs/2-configure-logs-context-apm-agents
  - /docs/logs/log-monitoring/enable-logs/configure-logs-context-apm-agents
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents
  - /docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents
---

import logsApmLogsinContextinUi from 'images/logs_screenshot-full_apm-logs-in-context-in-ui.png'

Whatever your application architecture, we have [solutions for reporting your logs to New Relic](/docs/logs/get-started/get-started-log-management#integrate-logs). 

When you use our APM agents, infrastructure agent, or OpenTelemetry integration to report log data, you get **logs in context**, a feature that lets you see your log data in the context of other platform UI experiences. For example, you'll see logs data in UI experiences like APM, infrastructure monitoring, distributed tracing, and errors inbox, to name a few. With that contextual knowledge, you can then dig deeper into the performance of your app or host, without needing to manually search through log data.

To see how logs in context can help you find the root cause of an issue in your apps and hosts, watch this short video (approx. 3:40 minutes):

<Video
  id="Vgae-GrlZWg"
  type="youtube"
/>

## See the root cause of issues across your platform [#compatibility-requirements]

By bringing all of your application and infrastructure data together in a single solution, you can get to the root cause of issues faster. Logs in context help you quickly see meaningful patterns and trends.

Don't spend extra time trying to narrow down all your logs from different parts of your platform. Instead, enable logs in context to see the exact log lines you need to identify and resolve a problem.

## APM logs in context [#apm-automatic]

Our APM agents have logs in context, including log forwarding, enabled by default. For more about getting and using APM logs in context, see [APM logs](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/get-started-logs-context). 


<img
  title="APM logs in context UI options"
  alt="Screenshot of APM Summary page with logs in context options"
  src={logsApmLogsinContextinUi}
/>

<figcaption>
  With our automatic APM logs in context, you can drill down into your logs, traces, and errors, all from the APM **Summary** page.
</figcaption>

## Infrastructure logs [#infrastructure]

As a more powerful alternative to using an APM agent for log reporting, or as a supplement to APM logs, you can [forward logs with our infrastructure agent](/docs/logs/forward-logs/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent). 

## Other log reporting options [#other-options]

For more solutions for forwarding your logs to New Relic, see [Introduction to logs](/docs/logs/get-started/get-started-log-management#integrate-logs).

<InstallFeedback />

## What's next? [#what-next]

If you haven't already, create your free New Relic account below to start monitoring your data today.
<InlineSignup/>

After you set up logs in context for APM or infrastructuring monitoring, make the most of your logging data in the New Relic UI:

* Explore the logging data across your platform with our [Logs UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui).
* See your logs in context of your app's performance in the [APM UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/#links). Troubleshoot [errors](/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/error-analytics/errors-page-find-fix-verify-problems/) with [distributed tracing](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-data), stack traces, application logs, and more.
* Set up [alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-alert-conditions/).
* [Query your data](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/) and [create dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/).

Commit message:

feat(tutorials): add links towards log tutorial

src/content/docs/logs/logs-context/logs-in-context.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction to logs in context
tags:
  - Logs
  - Enable log management in New Relic
  - Configure logs in context
metaDescription: New Relic logs in context displays your logs in assorted New Relic experiences, helping you more easily correlate and troubleshoot issues.
redirects:
  - /docs/enable-logs-context-logs
  - /docs/enable-apm-logs-context-logs
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs-context/enable-apm-logs-context-logs
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs-context/enable-logs-context-apm-agents
  - /node/36951
  - /docs/logs/enable-logs/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs-context
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/apm-integration
  - /docs/logs/log-monitoring/apm-integration
  - /docs/logs/log-management/apm-integration
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs/2-configure-logs-context-apm-agents
  - /docs/logs/log-monitoring/enable-logs/configure-logs-context-apm-agents
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents
  - /docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents
---

import logsApmLogsinContextinUi from 'images/logs_screenshot-full_apm-logs-in-context-in-ui.png'

Whatever your application architecture, we have [solutions for reporting your logs to New Relic](/docs/logs/get-started/get-started-log-management#integrate-logs). 

When you use our APM agents, infrastructure agent, or OpenTelemetry integration to report log data, you get **logs in context**, a feature that lets you see your log data in the context of other platform UI experiences. For example, you'll see logs data in UI experiences like APM, infrastructure monitoring, distributed tracing, and errors inbox, to name a few. With that contextual knowledge, you can then dig deeper into the performance of your app or host, without needing to manually search through log data.

To see how logs in context can help you find the root cause of an issue in your apps and hosts, watch this short video (approx. 3:40 minutes):

<Video
  id="Vgae-GrlZWg"
  type="youtube"
/>


<Callout variant="tip">
Got lots of logs? Check out our [tutorial on how to optimize and manage them](/docs/tutorial-large-logs/get-started-managing-large-logs/). 
</Callout>

## See the root cause of issues across your platform [#compatibility-requirements]

By bringing all of your application and infrastructure data together in a single solution, you can get to the root cause of issues faster. Logs in context help you quickly see meaningful patterns and trends.

Don't spend extra time trying to narrow down all your logs from different parts of your platform. Instead, enable logs in context to see the exact log lines you need to identify and resolve a problem.

## APM logs in context [#apm-automatic]

Our APM agents have logs in context, including log forwarding, enabled by default. For more about getting and using APM logs in context, see [APM logs](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/get-started-logs-context). 


<img
  title="APM logs in context UI options"
  alt="Screenshot of APM Summary page with logs in context options"
  src={logsApmLogsinContextinUi}
/>

<figcaption>
  With our automatic APM logs in context, you can drill down into your logs, traces, and errors, all from the APM **Summary** page.
</figcaption>

## Infrastructure logs [#infrastructure]

As a more powerful alternative to using an APM agent for log reporting, or as a supplement to APM logs, you can [forward logs with our infrastructure agent](/docs/logs/forward-logs/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent). 

## Other log reporting options [#other-options]

For more solutions for forwarding your logs to New Relic, see [Introduction to logs](/docs/logs/get-started/get-started-log-management#integrate-logs).

<InstallFeedback />

## What's next? [#what-next]

If you haven't already, create your free New Relic account below to start monitoring your data today.
<InlineSignup/>

After you set up logs in context for APM or infrastructuring monitoring, make the most of your logging data in the New Relic UI:

* Explore the logging data across your platform with our [Logs UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui).
* See your logs in context of your app's performance in the [APM UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/#links). Troubleshoot [errors](/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/error-analytics/errors-page-find-fix-verify-problems/) with [distributed tracing](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-data), stack traces, application logs, and more.
* Set up [alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-alert-conditions/).
* [Query your data](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/) and [create dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/).
