src/content/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/advanced-alerts/advanced-techniques/alert-custom-violation-descriptions.mdx, before:

---
title: Alert custom incident descriptions
tags:
  - Alerts and applied intelligence
  - Alerts
  - Alert conditions
metaDescription: 'Some alert conditions allow you to write a Description, which adds context to your incidents and notifications.'
redirects:
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/defining-conditions/alert-condition-descriptions
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/alert-descriptions
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/alert-custom-violation-descriptions
---

import accountsAlertsConditionDescription from 'images/accounts_screenshot-full_alerts-condition-description.png'

import accountsAlertViolationDescription from 'images/accounts_screenshot-full_alert-violation-description.png'

For some types of conditions, you can define a custom incident description that passes useful information downstream for better incident responses or for use by other systems. You can create a custom incident description in the UI or with NRQL.

## Requirements

The custom incident description feature is available for:

* NRQL alert conditions
* Infrastructure monitoring alert conditions

The custom incident description field has a maximum character size of 4000.

## What is a custom incident description? [#description]

For some [types of conditions](#requirements), you can create a custom incident description that passes information about a condition and its incidents downstream. Using a description, you can:

* Capture the reason for the condition
* Define the signal being monitored
* Define next steps
* Add metadata to downstream systems

The **Custom incident description** field allows you to use a general template structure that, when an incident is generated, [substitutes the generic sections with specific values](#substitution-format). For example, let's say you used this in a description:

```
This is my condition name : {{conditionName}}
The hostname is : {{tags.fullHostname}}
```

An incident resulting from this condition would fill in the details and you'd receive a notification like this:

```
This is my condition name : My Great Alert Condition
The hostname is : ip-123-45-67-89.us-west-1.compute.internal
```

## Create a custom incident description [#create-description]

<img
  title="The alerts condition description field with some example content."
  alt="Screen capture of the alerts condition description field used to pass useful, custom information along."
  src={accountsAlertsConditionDescription}
/>

<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Alerts & AI > Alert conditions (Policies) > (select a policy) > (select a condition)**: Click **+ Add custom incident description** to open the field.
</figcaption>

You can create a custom incident description using [the dedicated field for NRQL alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-nrql-alert-conditions/), or the [Describe this condition section for infrastructure alerts](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/infrastructure-alert-conditions/infrastructure-alerts-add-edit-or-view-host-alert-information/).

## Custom incident description template example [#example]

Here's a custom incident description template example:

```
this is my condition name : {{conditionName}}
The hostname is : {{tags.fullHostname}}
Owning Team: {{tags.label.owning_team}}
Product: {{tags.label.product}}
ec2VpcId: {{tags.aws.ec2VpcId}}
Service name : {{tags.label.Name}}
AWS Region : {{tags.aws.awsRegion}}
AWS Availability Zone: {{tags.aws.awsAvailabilityZone}}
Department : {{tags.label.department}}
Environment: {{tags.label.environment}}
Cluster: {{tags.clusterName}}
Cluster Role: {{tags.clusterRole}}
EC2 Instance Type: {{tags.instanceType}}
EC2 InstanceID: {{tags.aws.ec2InstanceId}}
EC2 AmiId: {{tags.aws.ec2AmiId}}
EC2 Root Device Type: {{tags.aws.ec2RootDeviceType}}
```

Here's how that data might appear in a notification:

<img
  title="new-relic-alert-violation-description-screenshot.png"
  alt="New Relic alert violation description "
  src={accountsAlertViolationDescription}
/>

## How to use attributes [#attributes-tags]

The attributes you can use in a custom incident description are a subset of attributes attached to the [incident event](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/defining-conditions/violation-event-attributes). Here are some details about the available attributes and how to use them:

* Incident event attributes: For any of the [standard attributes available for use in a custom incident description](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/defining-conditions/violation-event-attributes), use the format `{{AN_ATTRIBUTE}}`. For example:

  ```
  The target name is : {{targetName}}
  ```
* Tag attributes: For tags, you would use the format `{{tags.TAG_NAME}}`. There are two types of tags:

  * Entity-related tags: **For Infrastructure conditions only.** You can find available [entity-related tags](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/tagging-use-tags-organize-group-what-you-monitor#) by going to the [New Relic Explorer](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/ui-data/new-relic-one-entity-explorer-view-performance-across-apps-services-hosts) and looking under a service's **Metadata and tags**, or by viewing incident details. Here's an example of using tags in a custom incident description:

    ```
    The AWS region is : {{tags.aws.awsRegion}}
    Responsible team : {{tags.label.owning_team}}
    ```
  * Facet clause tags: **For NRQL conditions only.** If a NRQL condition uses a `FACET` clause, you can use `tags` formatting to use those values in your custom incident description. For example, if the NRQL query included `FACET hostName, cluster`, you could then use this:

    ```
    The host is : {{tags.hostName}}
    The cluster is : {{tags.cluster}}
    ```

Please note that tag names cannot include whitespace. The expanded values can include whitespace, but not the names of the tags themselves.

## Create a custom incident description with NRQL [#create-description-nrql]

You can create a custom incident description using a NRQL alert condition by creating a mutation with a description.

Here's an empty mutation template:

```
mutation {
  alertsNrqlConditionStaticUpdate(accountId: YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID, id: "YOUR_CONDITION_ID", condition: {description: ""}) {
    YOUR_CUSTOM_INCIDENT_DESCRIPTION
  }
}
```

Here's an example mutation with a custom incident description:

```
mutation {
  alertsNrqlConditionStaticUpdate(accountId: 123456, id: "123456", condition: {description: "timestamp : {{timestamp}} \n accountId : {{accountId}} \n type : {{type}} \n event : {{event}} \n description : {{description}} \n policyId : {{policyId}} \n policyName: {{policyName}} \n conditionName : {{conditionName}} \n conditionId : {{conditionId}} \n product : {{product}} \n conditionType : {{conditionType}} \n RunbookUrl : {{runbookUrl}} \n nrqlQuery : {{nrqlQuery}} \n nrqlEventType : {{nrqlEventType}} \n targetID : {{targetId}} \n targetName : {{targetName}} \n commandLine : {{tags.commandLine}} \n entityGuid : {{tags.entityGuid}} \n entityName : {{tags.entityName}} \n fullHostname : {{tags.fullHostname}} \n instanceType : {{tags.instanceType}} \n processDisplayName : {{tags.processDisplayName}}"}) {
    description
  }
}
```

* For more information on NRQL conditions and using the NerdGraph API, go to [NerdGraph API: NRQL condition alerts](/docs/alerts/alerts-nerdgraph/nerdgraph-examples/nerdgraph-api-alerts-nrql-conditions).
* For Infrastructure monitoring conditions, you can create the custom incident description when [creating an Infrastructure monitoring alert condition](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/infrastructure-alert-conditions/infrastructure-alerts-add-edit-or-view-host-alert-information).
* To learn about how to structure a custom incident description, see the [example template](#example) and the [attribute/tag instructions](#attributes-tags).

## Mentioning users or notifying channel in Slack [#mention-in-slack]

When creating a description that you know will be sent to [Slack](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-notifications/notification-channels-control-where-send-alerts#slack), you may wish to **@mention** a user or generate a channel-wide notification (for example, **@here** or **@channel**). To achieve this, simply include the User ID or a channel-wide notification in the description surrounded by `<` and `>` characters.

Here's an example for mentioning a user:

```
Attention <@LewCirne>
```

Here's an example for generating a channel-wide notification:

```
Attention <!channel>
```

<Callout variant="important">
  Note that the Slack convention for channel-wide notifications in Incoming Webhooks is to use a `!` prefix instead of `@`. For example, `!here` or `!channel`.
</Callout>

Commit message:

fixing NRQL to GraphQL confusion
NRQL is innacurate

src/content/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/advanced-alerts/advanced-techniques/alert-custom-violation-descriptions.mdx, after:

---
title: Alert custom incident descriptions
tags:
  - Alerts and applied intelligence
  - Alerts
  - Alert conditions
metaDescription: 'Some alert conditions allow you to write a Description, which adds context to your incidents and notifications.'
redirects:
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/defining-conditions/alert-condition-descriptions
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/alert-descriptions
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/alert-custom-violation-descriptions
---

import accountsAlertsConditionDescription from 'images/accounts_screenshot-full_alerts-condition-description.png'

import accountsAlertViolationDescription from 'images/accounts_screenshot-full_alert-violation-description.png'

For some types of conditions, you can define a custom incident description that passes useful information downstream for better incident responses or for use by other systems. You can create a custom incident description in the UI or with GraphQL.

## Requirements

The custom incident description feature is available for:

* NRQL alert conditions
* Infrastructure monitoring alert conditions

The custom incident description field has a maximum character size of 4000.

## What is a custom incident description? [#description]

For some [types of conditions](#requirements), you can create a custom incident description that passes information about a condition and its incidents downstream. Using a description, you can:

* Capture the reason for the condition
* Define the signal being monitored
* Define next steps
* Add metadata to downstream systems

The **Custom incident description** field allows you to use a general template structure that, when an incident is generated, [substitutes the generic sections with specific values](#substitution-format). For example, let's say you used this in a description:

```
This is my condition name : {{conditionName}}
The hostname is : {{tags.fullHostname}}
```

An incident resulting from this condition would fill in the details and you'd receive a notification like this:

```
This is my condition name : My Great Alert Condition
The hostname is : ip-123-45-67-89.us-west-1.compute.internal
```

## Create a custom incident description [#create-description]

<img
  title="The alerts condition description field with some example content."
  alt="Screen capture of the alerts condition description field used to pass useful, custom information along."
  src={accountsAlertsConditionDescription}
/>

<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Alerts & AI > Alert conditions (Policies) > (select a policy) > (select a condition)**: Click **+ Add custom incident description** to open the field.
</figcaption>

You can create a custom incident description using [the dedicated field for NRQL alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-nrql-alert-conditions/), or the [Describe this condition section for infrastructure alerts](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/infrastructure-alert-conditions/infrastructure-alerts-add-edit-or-view-host-alert-information/).

## Custom incident description template example [#example]

Here's a custom incident description template example:

```
this is my condition name : {{conditionName}}
The hostname is : {{tags.fullHostname}}
Owning Team: {{tags.label.owning_team}}
Product: {{tags.label.product}}
ec2VpcId: {{tags.aws.ec2VpcId}}
Service name : {{tags.label.Name}}
AWS Region : {{tags.aws.awsRegion}}
AWS Availability Zone: {{tags.aws.awsAvailabilityZone}}
Department : {{tags.label.department}}
Environment: {{tags.label.environment}}
Cluster: {{tags.clusterName}}
Cluster Role: {{tags.clusterRole}}
EC2 Instance Type: {{tags.instanceType}}
EC2 InstanceID: {{tags.aws.ec2InstanceId}}
EC2 AmiId: {{tags.aws.ec2AmiId}}
EC2 Root Device Type: {{tags.aws.ec2RootDeviceType}}
```

Here's how that data might appear in a notification:

<img
  title="new-relic-alert-violation-description-screenshot.png"
  alt="New Relic alert violation description "
  src={accountsAlertViolationDescription}
/>

## How to use attributes [#attributes-tags]

The attributes you can use in a custom incident description are a subset of attributes attached to the [incident event](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/defining-conditions/violation-event-attributes). Here are some details about the available attributes and how to use them:

* Incident event attributes: For any of the [standard attributes available for use in a custom incident description](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/defining-conditions/violation-event-attributes), use the format `{{AN_ATTRIBUTE}}`. For example:

  ```
  The target name is : {{targetName}}
  ```
* Tag attributes: For tags, you would use the format `{{tags.TAG_NAME}}`. There are two types of tags:

  * Entity-related tags: **For Infrastructure conditions only.** You can find available [entity-related tags](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/tagging-use-tags-organize-group-what-you-monitor#) by going to the [New Relic Explorer](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/ui-data/new-relic-one-entity-explorer-view-performance-across-apps-services-hosts) and looking under a service's **Metadata and tags**, or by viewing incident details. Here's an example of using tags in a custom incident description:

    ```
    The AWS region is : {{tags.aws.awsRegion}}
    Responsible team : {{tags.label.owning_team}}
    ```
  * Facet clause tags: **For NRQL conditions only.** If a NRQL condition uses a `FACET` clause, you can use `tags` formatting to use those values in your custom incident description. For example, if the NRQL query included `FACET hostName, cluster`, you could then use this:

    ```
    The host is : {{tags.hostName}}
    The cluster is : {{tags.cluster}}
    ```

Please note that tag names cannot include whitespace. The expanded values can include whitespace, but not the names of the tags themselves.

## Create a custom incident description with GraphQL [#create-description-graphwhql]

You can create a custom incident description using a GraphQL query by creating a mutation with a description.

Here's an empty mutation template:

```
mutation {
  alertsNrqlConditionStaticUpdate(accountId: YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID, id: "YOUR_CONDITION_ID", condition: {description: ""}) {
    YOUR_CUSTOM_INCIDENT_DESCRIPTION
  }
}
```

Here's an example mutation with a custom incident description:

```
mutation {
  alertsNrqlConditionStaticUpdate(accountId: 123456, id: "123456", condition: {description: "timestamp : {{timestamp}} \n accountId : {{accountId}} \n type : {{type}} \n event : {{event}} \n description : {{description}} \n policyId : {{policyId}} \n policyName: {{policyName}} \n conditionName : {{conditionName}} \n conditionId : {{conditionId}} \n product : {{product}} \n conditionType : {{conditionType}} \n RunbookUrl : {{runbookUrl}} \n nrqlQuery : {{nrqlQuery}} \n nrqlEventType : {{nrqlEventType}} \n targetID : {{targetId}} \n targetName : {{targetName}} \n commandLine : {{tags.commandLine}} \n entityGuid : {{tags.entityGuid}} \n entityName : {{tags.entityName}} \n fullHostname : {{tags.fullHostname}} \n instanceType : {{tags.instanceType}} \n processDisplayName : {{tags.processDisplayName}}"}) {
    description
  }
}
```

* For more information on NRQL conditions and using the NerdGraph API, go to [NerdGraph API: NRQL condition alerts](/docs/alerts/alerts-nerdgraph/nerdgraph-examples/nerdgraph-api-alerts-nrql-conditions).
* For Infrastructure monitoring conditions, you can create the custom incident description when [creating an Infrastructure monitoring alert condition](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/infrastructure-alert-conditions/infrastructure-alerts-add-edit-or-view-host-alert-information).
* To learn about how to structure a custom incident description, see the [example template](#example) and the [attribute/tag instructions](#attributes-tags).

## Mentioning users or notifying channel in Slack [#mention-in-slack]

When creating a description that you know will be sent to [Slack](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-notifications/notification-channels-control-where-send-alerts#slack), you may wish to **@mention** a user or generate a channel-wide notification (for example, **@here** or **@channel**). To achieve this, simply include the User ID or a channel-wide notification in the description surrounded by `<` and `>` characters.

Here's an example for mentioning a user:

```
Attention <@LewCirne>
```

Here's an example for generating a channel-wide notification:

```
Attention <!channel>
```

<Callout variant="important">
  Note that the Slack convention for channel-wide notifications in Incoming Webhooks is to use a `!` prefix instead of `@`. For example, `!here` or `!channel`.
</Callout>
