src/content/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-best-practices-metrics.mdx, before:

---
title: 'OpenTelemetry metrics: Best practices'
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Open source telemetry integrations
  - OpenTelemetry
metaDescription: Here are some tips for working with OpenTelemetry metrics and New Relic.
---

import opentelemetryQueryCumulativeSums from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_query-cumulative-sums.png'

import opentelemetrySumDerivativeFunction from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-crop_sum-derivative-function.png'

import opentelemetryHistogramOne from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-crop_histogram-one.png'

import opentelemetryHistogramTwo from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-crop_histogram-two.png'

import opentelemetryQueryCumulativeSumGauge from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_query-cumulative-sum-guage.png'

import opentelemetryCumulativeValueCumulativeSum from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_query-latest-cumulative-value-cumulative-sum.png'

import opentelemetryRateChangeCumulativeSum from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_query-rate-change-cumulative-sum.png'

import opentelemetryRateCumulativeSum from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_query-rate-cumulative-sum.png'

OpenTelemetry metrics are largely compatible with New Relic dimensional metrics. We support OpenTelemetry metrics v0.10. All of the supported metric types include an independent set of associated attributes (name-value pairs) which map directly to dimensions you can use to facet or filter metric data at query time. OpenTelemetry metrics are accompanied by a set of [resource](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/resource/sdk.md#resource-sdk) attributes that identify the originating entity that produced them and map to dimensions for faceting and filtering.

The OpenTelemetry [data model](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/metrics/data-model.md#metric-points) for metrics defines a number of different metric types: sum, gauge, histogram, and summary.

### Sum metrics [#sums]

OpenTelemetry sums are a scalar metric that is the sum of all data points over a given time window. Sums have a notion of [temporality](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/metrics/data-model.md#temporality) indicating whether reported values incorporate previous measurements (cumulative temporality) or not (delta temporality).

In addition, sums can either be monotonic (only go up or only go down) or non-monotonic (go up and down).

#### Delta sums [#delta-sums]

Delta sums are handled differently depending on whether they are monotonic or non-monotonic:

* Monotonic delta sums are mapped to the [count](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/metric-data/metric-data-type/#metric-types) metric type.
* Non-monotonic delta sums are not supported. Things measured in this fashion do not generate meaningful data as they are most likely summed to be used. For more discussion, see [this community pull request](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/2314#pullrequestreview-877408961) and [our docs on gauges versus counters](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-view-your-data/#jvms-and-metric-types).

#### Cumulative sums [#cumulative-sums]

Cumulative sums are handled differently depending on whether they're monotonic or non-monotonic. 

* Non-monotonic cumulative sums are mapped to the [gauge](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/metric-data/metric-data-type/#metric-types) metric type.
* Monotonic cumulative sums are mapped to our [cumulativeCount](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/metric-data/metric-data-type/#metric-types) metric type. This is true with the exception of accounts that were sending cumulative monotonic sums before March 14, 2023, which continue to be mapped to the `gauge` metric type: see [our transition guide](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/cumulative-metrics-transition-guide).

#### Sum configuration examples [#config-sums]

To understand how to configure aggregation temporality, see these examples using the [Java](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-opentelemetry-examples/tree/main/java/sdk-nr-config) and [Go](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-opentelemetry-examples/tree/main/go) OpenTelemetry SDKs.

### Gauge metrics [#gauge]

OpenTelemetry gauge metric data points represent a sampled value at a given time. These values are converted to the New Relic [gauge](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/metric-data/metric-data-type/#metric-types) metric type. OpenTelemetry gauges do not have an aggregation temporality, but the sampled values can be aggregated at query time.

### Histogram metrics [#otel-histogram]

OpenTelemetry [histograms](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/87a5ed7f0d4c403e2b336f275ce3e7fd66a8041b/specification/metrics/datamodel.md#histogram) compactly represent a population of recorded values along with a total count and sum. Optionally, histograms may include a series of buckets with explicit bounds and a count value for that bucket's population.

All OpenTelemetry histograms are converted to New Relic's [distribution](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/metric-data/metric-data-type/#metric-types) metric type, which is backed by a scaled exponential base 2 histogram (see [NrSketch](https://github.com/newrelic-experimental/newrelic-sketch-java#new-relic-sketch) for a more thorough explanation). 

#### Delta histograms [#delta-histograms]

For exponential histograms, we are able to do a direct translation to NrSketch. 

For explicit bounds histograms, counts from OpenTelemetry histogram buckets are assigned to New Relic's distribution metric buckets using linear interpolation. Also, OpenTelemetry has negative and positive infinity bound buckets which we represent in New Relic as zero-width buckets. We do this because we do not have a representation for negative and positive infinity. For example, an OpenTelemetry bucket with bounds `\[-∞, 10)` will be represented by a `\[10,10)` zero width New Relic bucket. You may see exaggerated bucket counts at the endpoints of your distribution due to this translation.

#### Cumulative histograms [#cumulative-histograms]

Cumulative histograms are converted to a [Delta histogram](#delta-histogram). For more on the translation process, see [Cumulative metrics](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/metric-data/cumulative-metrics).

### Summary metrics [#summary-metric]

OpenTelemetry summary metric data points are used to represent quantile summaries (for example, P99 latency). These map directly to the New Relic summary metric type, however the only quantiles we maintain are the 0.0 and 1.0 quantiles for min and max. If percentiles are something you wish to capture, prefer [Histogram metrics](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-best-practices-metrics/#otel-histogram).

Summary metric data points include count, sum, and quantile values, with 0.0 as min and 1.0 as max. OpenTelemetry provides summary metrics for compatibility with other formats.

### Start time [#start-time]

The `startTimeUnixNano` field is optional according to the OpenTelemetry [specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/87a5ed7f0d4c403e2b336f275ce3e7fd66a8041b/specification/metrics/datamodel.md#temporality). When this field is provided, it is used for the timestamp on the resulting New Relic metric, and the `duration` is calculated as `timeUnixNano - startTimeUnixNano`. The `duration` field is used to calculate the queryable `endTimeStamp` attribute on the New Relic metric, but it serves no other semantic purpose.

If `startTimeUnixNano` is not provided, then `timeUnixNano` is used for the timestamp field on the resulting New Relic metric, and the duration field is set to zero.

### Array values for attributes [#array-values]

OpenTelemetry metrics and other signals may include attributes that consist of a homogenous array of primitive types. New Relic supports non-nested homogeneous arrays with less than 65 elements.

### Exemplars [#exemplars]

OpenTelemetry defines exemplar values that allow other signals, like traces, to be connected to a metric event and provide context. Exemplars are not supported by New Relic.

### How to query metrics [#query]

Consider these tips for building metric NRQL queries in New Relic.

#### Query cumulative sums stored as cumulativeCounts [#sums-as-counts]

Here are some ways to query your data:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="cumulative"
    title="Example: Query the latest cumulative value"
  >
    To view the raw cumulative value for cumulative sums, you can use the [`latest()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#latest) NRQL function in conjuction with [`getField()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#func-getfield):

    ```sql
    FROM Metric SELECT latest(otelcol_process_uptime[cumulative]) TIMESERIES FACET dimensions()
    ```
    <img
      title="Screen shot showing how to query the latest cumulative value of a cumulative sum"
      alt="Screen shot showing how to query the latest cumulative value of a cumulative sum"
      src={opentelemetryCumulativeValueCumulativeSum}
      />  
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="rate-function"
    title="Example: Query rate of change of a cumulative sum"
  >
    To see the rate of change over a given time interval for a cumulative sum stored as a `cumulativeCount`, you can use the [`rate()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#func-rate) and [`sum()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#func-sum) NRQL functions:

    ```sql
    FROM Metric SELECT rate(sum(otelcol_process_uptime), 1 minute) TIMESERIES FACET dimensions()
    ```
    
    <img
      title="Screen shot showing how to query the rate of a cumulative sum"
      alt="Screen shot showing how to query the rate of a cumulative sum"
      src={opentelemetryRateCumulativeSum}
      />

    For more information on how [resets and gaps](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/87a5ed7f0d4c403e2b336f275ce3e7fd66a8041b/specification/metrics/datamodel.md#resets-and-gaps) are handled, see [Cumulative metric reporting details](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/metric-data/cumulative-metrics).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

#### Query cumulative sums stored as gauges [#sums-as-gauges]

New Relic customers that reported cumulative sums before March 14, 2023, have their cumulative sums converted to our `gauge` type. For details on how this is changing, see our [Cumulative metrics transition guide](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/cumulative-metrics-transition-guide). 

If your cumulative sums are stored as the `gauge` type, here are some ways to query your data:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="raw-gauge"
    title="Example: Raw gauge value for cumulative sums"
  >
    To view the raw gauge value for cumulative sums, you can use the [`latest()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#latest) NRQL function:

    ```sql
    FROM Metric SELECT latest(otelcol_process_uptime) TIMESERIES FACET dimensions() 
    ```
    
    <img 
      title="Screen shot showing how to query a cumulative sum as a gauge"
      alt="Screen shot showing how to query a cumulative sum as a gauge"
      src={opentelemetryQueryCumulativeSumGauge}
    />
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="derivative-function"
    title="Example: Rate of change with cumulative sums as gauges"
  >
    To see the rate of change over a given time interval for a cumulative sum stored as a gauge, you can use the [`derivative()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#derivative) NRQL function:

    ```sql
    FROM Metric SELECT derivative(otelcol_process_uptime, 1 minute) TIMESERIES FACET dimensions()
    ```
    <img 
      title="Screenshot showing rate of change over a given time interval for a cumulative sum"
      alt="Screenshot showing rate of change over a given time interval for a cumulative sum"
      src={opentelemetryRateChangeCumulativeSum}
    />

    New Relic does not currently support either reporting on [resets and gaps](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/87a5ed7f0d4c403e2b336f275ce3e7fd66a8041b/specification/metrics/datamodel.md#resets-and-gaps) or accounting for them with cumulative counters.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

#### Query gauge metrics [#query-gauges] 

When New Relic converts cumulative sums to gauges, you can query them using either the [`latest()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#latest) or [`derivative()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#derivative) NRQL functions. The function you choose depends on whether you want to see the raw value or compute the rate of change.

#### Query histogram metrics [#query-histograms]

New Relic histograms translated from OpenTelemetry metrics have the same query semantics as other New Relic histograms. Namely, the [`histogram()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#func-histogram) NRQL function can be used to represent the histogram with a configurable number of buckets and bucket width. We translate cumulative histograms into delta histograms, so they are queried the same way a delta histogram would be queried. Note for explicit bounds histograms, that you may see larger bucket counts at the endpoint buckets. This is because we are adding negative and positive infinity bound OpenTelemetry buckets into a zero width New Relic bucket.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="normal-distribution"
    title="Example: Normal distribution"
  >
    ```sql
    FROM Metric SELECT histogram(test.histogram, buckets: 100, width: 1000) WHERE distributionType = 'Normal Distribution' SINCE 1 day ago
    ```

    <img
      title="Screenshot showing a histogram query"
      alt="Screenshot showing a histogram query"
      src={opentelemetryHistogramOne}
    />
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="histogram-heat-map"
    title="Example: Heat map"
  >
    The `FACET` keyword is also available to create heat map charts.

    ```sql
    FROM Metric SELECT histogram(test.histogram, buckets: 100, width: 1000) FACET distributionType SINCE 1 day ago
    ```

    <img
      title="Screenshot showing a heat map"
      alt="Screenshot showing a heat map"
      src={opentelemetryHistogramTwo}
    />
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

<Callout variant="important">
  The `TIMESERIES` keyword is not supported for New Relic histograms unless charing `percentiles()`.
</Callout>

Commit message:

(chore) Updating ga and eol date

src/content/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-best-practices-metrics.mdx, after:

---
title: 'OpenTelemetry metrics: Best practices'
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Open source telemetry integrations
  - OpenTelemetry
metaDescription: Here are some tips for working with OpenTelemetry metrics and New Relic.
---
import opentelemetryQueryCumulativeSums from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_query-cumulative-sums.png'

import opentelemetrySumDerivativeFunction from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-crop_sum-derivative-function.png'

import opentelemetryHistogramOne from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-crop_histogram-one.png'

import opentelemetryHistogramTwo from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-crop_histogram-two.png'

import opentelemetryQueryCumulativeSumGauge from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_query-cumulative-sum-guage.png'

import opentelemetryCumulativeValueCumulativeSum from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_query-latest-cumulative-value-cumulative-sum.png'

import opentelemetryRateChangeCumulativeSum from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_query-rate-change-cumulative-sum.png'

import opentelemetryRateCumulativeSum from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_query-rate-cumulative-sum.png'
export const year = 2023
export const gaDate = 'April 4'
export const gaDateAndYear = gaDate + ', ' + year

OpenTelemetry metrics are largely compatible with New Relic dimensional metrics. We support OpenTelemetry metrics v0.10. All of the supported metric types include an independent set of associated attributes (name-value pairs) which map directly to dimensions you can use to facet or filter metric data at query time. OpenTelemetry metrics are accompanied by a set of [resource](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/resource/sdk.md#resource-sdk) attributes that identify the originating entity that produced them and map to dimensions for faceting and filtering.

The OpenTelemetry [data model](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/metrics/data-model.md#metric-points) for metrics defines a number of different metric types: sum, gauge, histogram, and summary.

### Sum metrics [#sums]

OpenTelemetry sums are a scalar metric that is the sum of all data points over a given time window. Sums have a notion of [temporality](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/metrics/data-model.md#temporality) indicating whether reported values incorporate previous measurements (cumulative temporality) or not (delta temporality).

In addition, sums can either be monotonic (only go up or only go down) or non-monotonic (go up and down).

#### Delta sums [#delta-sums]

Delta sums are handled differently depending on whether they are monotonic or non-monotonic:

* Monotonic delta sums are mapped to the [count](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/metric-data/metric-data-type/#metric-types) metric type.
* Non-monotonic delta sums are not supported. Things measured in this fashion do not generate meaningful data as they are most likely summed to be used. For more discussion, see [this community pull request](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/2314#pullrequestreview-877408961) and [our docs on gauges versus counters](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-view-your-data/#jvms-and-metric-types).

#### Cumulative sums [#cumulative-sums]

Cumulative sums are handled differently depending on whether they're monotonic or non-monotonic.

* Non-monotonic cumulative sums are mapped to the [gauge](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/metric-data/metric-data-type/#metric-types) metric type.
* Monotonic cumulative sums are mapped to our [cumulativeCount](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/metric-data/metric-data-type/#metric-types) metric type. This is true with the exception of accounts that were sending cumulative monotonic sums before {gaDateAndYear}, which continue to be mapped to the `gauge` metric type: see [our transition guide](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/cumulative-metrics-transition-guide).

#### Sum configuration examples [#config-sums]

To understand how to configure aggregation temporality, see these examples using the [Java](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-opentelemetry-examples/tree/main/java/sdk-nr-config) and [Go](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-opentelemetry-examples/tree/main/go) OpenTelemetry SDKs.

### Gauge metrics [#gauge]

OpenTelemetry gauge metric data points represent a sampled value at a given time. These values are converted to the New Relic [gauge](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/metric-data/metric-data-type/#metric-types) metric type. OpenTelemetry gauges do not have an aggregation temporality, but the sampled values can be aggregated at query time.

### Histogram metrics [#otel-histogram]

OpenTelemetry [histograms](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/87a5ed7f0d4c403e2b336f275ce3e7fd66a8041b/specification/metrics/datamodel.md#histogram) compactly represent a population of recorded values along with a total count and sum. Optionally, histograms may include a series of buckets with explicit bounds and a count value for that bucket's population.

All OpenTelemetry histograms are converted to New Relic's [distribution](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/metric-data/metric-data-type/#metric-types) metric type, which is backed by a scaled exponential base 2 histogram (see [NrSketch](https://github.com/newrelic-experimental/newrelic-sketch-java#new-relic-sketch) for a more thorough explanation).

#### Delta histograms [#delta-histograms]

For exponential histograms, we are able to do a direct translation to NrSketch.

For explicit bounds histograms, counts from OpenTelemetry histogram buckets are assigned to New Relic's distribution metric buckets using linear interpolation. Also, OpenTelemetry has negative and positive infinity bound buckets which we represent in New Relic as zero-width buckets. We do this because we do not have a representation for negative and positive infinity. For example, an OpenTelemetry bucket with bounds `\[-∞, 10)` will be represented by a `\[10,10)` zero width New Relic bucket. You may see exaggerated bucket counts at the endpoints of your distribution due to this translation.

#### Cumulative histograms [#cumulative-histograms]

Cumulative histograms are converted to a [Delta histogram](#delta-histogram). For more on the translation process, see [Cumulative metrics](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/metric-data/cumulative-metrics).

### Summary metrics [#summary-metric]

OpenTelemetry summary metric data points are used to represent quantile summaries (for example, P99 latency). These map directly to the New Relic summary metric type, however the only quantiles we maintain are the 0.0 and 1.0 quantiles for min and max. If percentiles are something you wish to capture, prefer [Histogram metrics](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-best-practices-metrics/#otel-histogram).

Summary metric data points include count, sum, and quantile values, with 0.0 as min and 1.0 as max. OpenTelemetry provides summary metrics for compatibility with other formats.

### Start time [#start-time]

The `startTimeUnixNano` field is optional according to the OpenTelemetry [specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/87a5ed7f0d4c403e2b336f275ce3e7fd66a8041b/specification/metrics/datamodel.md#temporality). When this field is provided, it is used for the timestamp on the resulting New Relic metric, and the `duration` is calculated as `timeUnixNano - startTimeUnixNano`. The `duration` field is used to calculate the queryable `endTimeStamp` attribute on the New Relic metric, but it serves no other semantic purpose.

If `startTimeUnixNano` is not provided, then `timeUnixNano` is used for the timestamp field on the resulting New Relic metric, and the duration field is set to zero.

### Array values for attributes [#array-values]

OpenTelemetry metrics and other signals may include attributes that consist of a homogenous array of primitive types. New Relic supports non-nested homogeneous arrays with less than 65 elements.

### Exemplars [#exemplars]

OpenTelemetry defines exemplar values that allow other signals, like traces, to be connected to a metric event and provide context. Exemplars are not supported by New Relic.

### How to query metrics [#query]

Consider these tips for building metric NRQL queries in New Relic.

#### Query cumulative sums stored as cumulativeCounts [#sums-as-counts]

Here are some ways to query your data:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="cumulative"
    title="Example: Query the latest cumulative value"
  >
    To view the raw cumulative value for cumulative sums, you can use the [`latest()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#latest) NRQL function in conjuction with [`getField()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#func-getfield):

    ```sql
    FROM Metric SELECT latest(otelcol_process_uptime[cumulative]) TIMESERIES FACET dimensions()
    ```
    <img
      title="Screen shot showing how to query the latest cumulative value of a cumulative sum"
      alt="Screen shot showing how to query the latest cumulative value of a cumulative sum"
      src={opentelemetryCumulativeValueCumulativeSum}
      />
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="rate-function"
    title="Example: Query rate of change of a cumulative sum"
  >
    To see the rate of change over a given time interval for a cumulative sum stored as a `cumulativeCount`, you can use the [`rate()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#func-rate) and [`sum()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#func-sum) NRQL functions:

    ```sql
    FROM Metric SELECT rate(sum(otelcol_process_uptime), 1 minute) TIMESERIES FACET dimensions()
    ```

    <img
      title="Screen shot showing how to query the rate of a cumulative sum"
      alt="Screen shot showing how to query the rate of a cumulative sum"
      src={opentelemetryRateCumulativeSum}
      />

    For more information on how [resets and gaps](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/87a5ed7f0d4c403e2b336f275ce3e7fd66a8041b/specification/metrics/datamodel.md#resets-and-gaps) are handled, see [Cumulative metric reporting details](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/metric-data/cumulative-metrics).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

#### Query cumulative sums stored as gauges [#sums-as-gauges]

New Relic customers that reported cumulative sums before {gaDateAndYear}, have their cumulative sums converted to our `gauge` type. For details on how this is changing, see our [Cumulative metrics transition guide](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/cumulative-metrics-transition-guide).

If your cumulative sums are stored as the `gauge` type, here are some ways to query your data:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="raw-gauge"
    title="Example: Raw gauge value for cumulative sums"
  >
    To view the raw gauge value for cumulative sums, you can use the [`latest()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#latest) NRQL function:

    ```sql
    FROM Metric SELECT latest(otelcol_process_uptime) TIMESERIES FACET dimensions()
    ```

    <img
      title="Screen shot showing how to query a cumulative sum as a gauge"
      alt="Screen shot showing how to query a cumulative sum as a gauge"
      src={opentelemetryQueryCumulativeSumGauge}
    />
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="derivative-function"
    title="Example: Rate of change with cumulative sums as gauges"
  >
    To see the rate of change over a given time interval for a cumulative sum stored as a gauge, you can use the [`derivative()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#derivative) NRQL function:

    ```sql
    FROM Metric SELECT derivative(otelcol_process_uptime, 1 minute) TIMESERIES FACET dimensions()
    ```
    <img
      title="Screenshot showing rate of change over a given time interval for a cumulative sum"
      alt="Screenshot showing rate of change over a given time interval for a cumulative sum"
      src={opentelemetryRateChangeCumulativeSum}
    />

    New Relic does not currently support either reporting on [resets and gaps](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/87a5ed7f0d4c403e2b336f275ce3e7fd66a8041b/specification/metrics/datamodel.md#resets-and-gaps) or accounting for them with cumulative counters.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

#### Query gauge metrics [#query-gauges]

When New Relic converts cumulative sums to gauges, you can query them using either the [`latest()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#latest) or [`derivative()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#derivative) NRQL functions. The function you choose depends on whether you want to see the raw value or compute the rate of change.

#### Query histogram metrics [#query-histograms]

New Relic histograms translated from OpenTelemetry metrics have the same query semantics as other New Relic histograms. Namely, the [`histogram()`](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions/#func-histogram) NRQL function can be used to represent the histogram with a configurable number of buckets and bucket width. We translate cumulative histograms into delta histograms, so they are queried the same way a delta histogram would be queried. Note for explicit bounds histograms, that you may see larger bucket counts at the endpoint buckets. This is because we are adding negative and positive infinity bound OpenTelemetry buckets into a zero width New Relic bucket.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="normal-distribution"
    title="Example: Normal distribution"
  >
    ```sql
    FROM Metric SELECT histogram(test.histogram, buckets: 100, width: 1000) WHERE distributionType = 'Normal Distribution' SINCE 1 day ago
    ```

    <img
      title="Screenshot showing a histogram query"
      alt="Screenshot showing a histogram query"
      src={opentelemetryHistogramOne}
    />
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="histogram-heat-map"
    title="Example: Heat map"
  >
    The `FACET` keyword is also available to create heat map charts.

    ```sql
    FROM Metric SELECT histogram(test.histogram, buckets: 100, width: 1000) FACET distributionType SINCE 1 day ago
    ```

    <img
      title="Screenshot showing a heat map"
      alt="Screenshot showing a heat map"
      src={opentelemetryHistogramTwo}
    />
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

<Callout variant="important">
  The `TIMESERIES` keyword is not supported for New Relic histograms unless charing `percentiles()`.
</Callout>
