src/content/docs/infrastructure/amazon-integrations/aws-integrations-list/aws-nat-gateway-monitoring-integration.mdx, before:

---
title: Amazon NAT Gateway monitoring integration
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Amazon integrations
  - AWS integrations list
metaDescription: "The New Relic Amazon NAT Gateway integration: Use AWS CloudWatch Metrics to monitor your NAT Gateway performance."
---

Oour AWS Network Address Translation (NAT) Gateway integration reports data from your NAT Gateway service to your New Relic account. 

## Features [#features]

With this integration, you can see 
[NAT Gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-nat-gateway.html) telemetry data in New Relic. You can monitor your services, query incoming data, and build dashboards, to observe everything at a glance.

## Activate integration [#activate]

To enable this integration, follow [the instructions for connecting AWS services to New Relic](/docs/infrastructure/infrastructure-integrations/getting-started/connect-aws-integrations-infrastructure).

## Configuration and data transfer [#configure]

We have two options for reporting data. We recommend using [streaming data](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-streaming-export) but [polling](/docs/infrastructure/infrastructure-integrations/cloud-integrations/configure-polling-frequency-data-collection-cloud-integrations) is also supported. 

If you choose polling, it's possible to adjust polling frequency using [configuration options](/docs/integrations/new-relic-integrations/getting-started/configure-polling-frequency-data-collection-cloud-integrations). [Default polling information](/docs/infrastructure/amazon-integrations/aws-integrations-list/aws-polling-intervals-infrastructure-integrations) for AWS integrations:

* New Relic polling interval: 5 minutes
* Amazon CloudWatch data interval: 1 minute or 5 minutes

## Find and use data [#find-use-data]

Data from this integration is attached to [our `Metric` data type](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#dimensional-metrics). 

One way to find your data: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Metrics and events** and filter by `aws.natgateway`

## Metric data [#metrics]

Details on the metrics reported: 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "240px" }}>
      Metric (min, max, average, count, sum)  
      </th>
      <th>
      Unit  
      </th>
      <th>
      Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `ActiveConnectionCount`
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The total number of concurrent active TCP connections through the NAT gateway.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `BytesInFromDestination`     
      </td>
      <td>
      bytes
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of bytes received by the NAT gateway from the destination.
      </td>
    </tr> 
    <tr>
      <td>
      `BytesInFromSource`     
      </td>
      <td>
      bytes
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of bytes received by the NAT gateway from clients in your VPC.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `BytesOutToDestination`     
      </td>
      <td>
      bytes
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of bytes sent out through the NAT gateway to the destination.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `BytesOutToSource`     
      </td>
      <td>
      bytes
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of bytes sent through the NAT gateway to the clients in your VPC.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `ConnectionAttemptCount`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of connection attempts made through the NAT gateway.
      </td>
    </tr>  
    <tr>
      <td>
      `ConnectionEstablishedCount`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of connections established through the NAT gateway.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `ErrorPortAllocation`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of times the NAT gateway could not allocate a source port.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `IdleTimeoutCount`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of connections that transitioned from the active state to the idle state. An active connection transitions to idle if it was not closed gracefully and there was no activity for the last 350 seconds.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `PacketsDropCount`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of packets dropped by the NAT gateway.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `PacketsInFromDestination`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of packets received by the NAT gateway from the destination.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `PacketsInFromSource`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of packets received by the NAT gateway from clients in your VPC.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `PacketsOutToDestination`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of packets sent out through the NAT gateway to the destination.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `PacketsOutToSource`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of packets sent through the NAT gateway to the clients in your VPC.
      </td>    
    </tr>

    </tbody>
</table>

## Tips for using your data [#tips]

For how to create custom charts of your data, see [our NRQL docs](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language).

You can set up alerts to get notifications about changes in your data. [Learn more about creating alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/learn-alerts/introduction-alerts).

Commit message:

fix(nat): add link to query metrics

src/content/docs/infrastructure/amazon-integrations/aws-integrations-list/aws-nat-gateway-monitoring-integration.mdx, after:

---
title: Amazon NAT Gateway monitoring integration
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Amazon integrations
  - AWS integrations list
metaDescription: "The New Relic Amazon NAT Gateway integration: Use AWS CloudWatch Metrics to monitor your NAT Gateway performance."
---

Oour AWS Network Address Translation (NAT) Gateway integration reports data from your NAT Gateway service to your New Relic account. 

## Features [#features]

With this integration, you can see 
[NAT Gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-nat-gateway.html) telemetry data in New Relic. You can monitor your services, query incoming data, and build dashboards, to observe everything at a glance.

## Activate integration [#activate]

To enable this integration, follow [the instructions for connecting AWS services to New Relic](/docs/infrastructure/infrastructure-integrations/getting-started/connect-aws-integrations-infrastructure).

## Configuration and data transfer [#configure]

We have two options for reporting data. We recommend using [streaming data](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-streaming-export) but [polling](/docs/infrastructure/infrastructure-integrations/cloud-integrations/configure-polling-frequency-data-collection-cloud-integrations) is also supported. 

If you choose polling, it's possible to adjust polling frequency using [configuration options](/docs/integrations/new-relic-integrations/getting-started/configure-polling-frequency-data-collection-cloud-integrations). [Default polling information](/docs/infrastructure/amazon-integrations/aws-integrations-list/aws-polling-intervals-infrastructure-integrations) for AWS integrations:

* New Relic polling interval: 5 minutes
* Amazon CloudWatch data interval: 1 minute or 5 minutes

## Find and use data [#find-use-data]

Data from this integration is attached to [our `Metric` data type](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#dimensional-metrics). 

One way to find your data: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Metrics and events** and filter by `aws.natgateway`

## Metric data [#metrics]

Details on the metrics reported: 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "240px" }}>
      Metric (min, max, average, count, sum)  
      </th>
      <th>
      Unit  
      </th>
      <th>
      Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `ActiveConnectionCount`
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The total number of concurrent active TCP connections through the NAT gateway.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `BytesInFromDestination`     
      </td>
      <td>
      bytes
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of bytes received by the NAT gateway from the destination.
      </td>
    </tr> 
    <tr>
      <td>
      `BytesInFromSource`     
      </td>
      <td>
      bytes
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of bytes received by the NAT gateway from clients in your VPC.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `BytesOutToDestination`     
      </td>
      <td>
      bytes
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of bytes sent out through the NAT gateway to the destination.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `BytesOutToSource`     
      </td>
      <td>
      bytes
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of bytes sent through the NAT gateway to the clients in your VPC.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `ConnectionAttemptCount`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of connection attempts made through the NAT gateway.
      </td>
    </tr>  
    <tr>
      <td>
      `ConnectionEstablishedCount`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of connections established through the NAT gateway.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `ErrorPortAllocation`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of times the NAT gateway could not allocate a source port.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `IdleTimeoutCount`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of connections that transitioned from the active state to the idle state. An active connection transitions to idle if it was not closed gracefully and there was no activity for the last 350 seconds.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `PacketsDropCount`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of packets dropped by the NAT gateway.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `PacketsInFromDestination`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of packets received by the NAT gateway from the destination.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `PacketsInFromSource`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of packets received by the NAT gateway from clients in your VPC.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `PacketsOutToDestination`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of packets sent out through the NAT gateway to the destination.
      </td>    
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      `PacketsOutToSource`     
      </td>
      <td>
      count
      </td>
      <td>
      The number of packets sent through the NAT gateway to the clients in your VPC.
      </td>    
    </tr>

    </tbody>
</table>

## Tips for using your data [#tips]

For how to create custom charts of your data, see [our NRQL docs](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language). For tips on querying this kind of data, see [Query metric data](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/metric-data/query-metric-data-type). 

You can set up alerts to get notifications about changes in your data. [Learn more about creating alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/learn-alerts/introduction-alerts).
