src/content/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/lighttpd-integration.mdx, before:

---
title: Lighttpd integration
tags:
   - Lighttpd  integration
   - New Relic integrations
metaDescription: Install our Lighttpd dashboards and see your Lighttpd  data in New Relic.
---
import infrastructureLighttptdDashboard from 'images/infrastructure_screenshot-full_Lighttptd-dashboard.png'


With our Lighttpd dashboard, your team can monitor outcome measures and inventory data.   Lighttpd monitoring provides important information to help you construct a complete picture of your web server's performance. This performance data includes uptime, network in bytes and packets, number of connections, and more. Metric data can be seen on our pre-built dashboards, and you can also create your own custom searches, graphs, and alert policies. Our Lighttpd integration uses a Nri-Flex setup.

<img
  title="Lighttpd dashboard"
  alt="A screenshot depicting the Lighttpd dashboard"
  src={infrastructureLighttptdDashboard}
/>

<figcaption>
After setting up the integration with New Relic, see your data in dashboards like these, right out of the box.
</figcaption>

## Install the infrastructure agent [#infra]

To get data into New Relic, install our infrastructure agent. Our infrastructure agent collects and ingests data so you can keep track of your app's performance. The version should be 1.10.7 or later to support NRI-Flex integration.

You can install the infrastructure agent two different ways:

* Our [guided install](https://one.newrelic.com/nr1-core?state=4f81feab-35f7-e97e-9903-52510f8542bd) is a CLI tool that inspects your system and installs the infrastructure agent alongside the application monitoring agent that best works for your system. To learn more about how our guided install works, check out our [Guided install overview](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/installation/new-relic-guided-install-overview).
* If you'd rather install our infrastructure agent manually, you can follow a tutorial for manual installation for [Linux](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/linux-installation/install-infrastructure-monitoring-agent-linux), [Windows](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/windows-installation/install-infrastructure-monitoring-agent-windows/), or [macOS](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/macos-installation/install-infrastructure-monitoring-agent-macos/).

## Integrate Lighttpd with New Relic [#integrate]

Once installed, the infrastructure agent can ingest data from your app and send it to New Relic, but you still need to integrate – or establish a line of communication – between the agent and your app. Once integrated, you can get started with an out of the box monitoring solution for your Lighttpd app. 

<Steps>
<Step>
### Manually configure the lighttpd.conf file

To export metrics on the url `127.0.0.1:9880/server-status?format=plain`, use the following steps:

1. Go to lighttpd config file path.
```
cd /etc/lighttpd/
```
2. Open `lighttpd.conf` file to edit.
```
sudo nano lighttpd.conf
```

3. Add `mod_status` inside `server.modules` object.
4. Add status.status-url = `/server-status` after server.modules.
5. Update `server.document-root` with the lighttpd file path `/var/www/html/lighttpd-webpage`
6. Update `server.port` on which you're running lighttpd. 
```
server.port to 9880.
 ```
7. Run `127.0.0.1:9880/server-status?auto` or  `127.0.0.1:9880/server-status?format=plain` on the browser to check server related metrics.

Here is a sample configuration file:

```
server.modules = (
    "mod_1indexfile",
    "mod_access”,
    "mod_alias",
    "mod_redirect”,
    "mod_status"
)

server.document-root	= "/var/www/html/1lighttpd-webpage"
server.upload-dirs	  = ( "/var/cache/lighttpd/uploads" )
server.errorlog		    = "/var/log/lighttpd/error.log"
server.pid-file		    = "/run/lighttpd.pid"
server.username		    = "www-data"
server.groupname	    = "www-data"
server.port		        = 9880
status.status-url	    = "/server-status”
```
</Step>


<Step>

## Nri-Flex configuration

First, follow the [installation steps](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-flex/blob/master/docs/basic-tutorial.md) of nri-flex from [nri-flex repository](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-flex)

Once you've installed the infrastructure agent on your host, nri-flex binary is also installed.

To create a flex configuration file follow these steps:

1. Create a file named `lighttpd-http-config.yml` on path `/etc/newrelic-infra/integrations.d`
Note: A generic file name could be &ltFILENAME&gt-config.yml

Path:
```
/etc/newrelic-infra/integrations.d
```

2. Add the following configuration to your `lighttpd-http-config.yml` file:

You can see a sample configuration file [here](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-flex/blob/master/examples/lighttpd-http-example.yml).

It's important to not that you can replace `base_url` and `url` with your application url (Please refer to url documentation for more understanding) and also change url in the `commands` attribute. You can also convert the metrics format which you get through url into regex and add expressions in regex_matches. EVENT_TYPE is also adjustable. 

Once your configuration file is updated, it will look like this:

```
---
integrations:
  - name: nri-flex
    # interval: 30s
    config:
      name: lighttpdFlex
      global:
        base_url: http://lighttpd.net/
      apis:
        - event_type: status
          url: status?format=plain
        - event_type: &lTHE_PLACE_WHERE_METRICS_ARE_CAPTURED&gt
          commands:
            - cache: status?format=plain
              split_by: ": "
          snake_to_camel: true


  - name: nri-flex
    interval: 10s
    # timeout: 5s
    config:
      name: test
      apis:
        - event_type: &ltTHE_PLACE_WHERE_METRICS_ARE_CAPTURED&gt
          commands:
            - run: curl 'http://lighttpd.net/status?auto'
              split_by: ": "
              regex_matches:
                - expression: (\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)
```

</Step>

<Step>

### Restart the New Relic infra agent and lighttpd service

To restart the New Relic infra agent follow [these](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/manage-your-agent/start-stop-restart-infrastructure-agent/) instructions and run this command.

```
sudo systemctl restart lighttpd.service && sudo systemctl restart newrelic-infra.service
```
</Step>

<Step>
###  Query your data using NRQL

You can use this sample query to view your Lighttpd metrics captured on [one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities):

```
FROM <EVENT_TYPE> SELECT * LIMIT MAX 
```

EVENT_TYPE should match with the one you mentioned in the nri-flex config file.
</Step>

</Steps>

## See Lighttpd metrics in a dashboard [#dash]

With only the infrastructure agent installed and instrumented with your app, you can view your raw data in our Metrics & events. Our default dashboards transform that raw data into charts and graphs, which provide a bird's eye view of your system's health. To install our default dashboards, go to our Lighttpd instant observability page.

## What's next?

To learn more about building NRQL queries and generating dashboards, check out these docs:

* [Introduction to the query builder](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/query-builder/introduction-query-builder) to create basic and advanced queries.
* [Introduction to dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards) to customize your dashboard and carry out different actions.
* [Manage your dashboard](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/manage-your-dashboard) to adjust your dashboards display mode, or to add more content to your dashboard.

Commit message:

Lighttpd Image Update
Requesting you to kindly update the image here with the below image URL
image URL: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/newrelic/newrelic-quickstarts/797fd362bc17014d67194a8e8855632d62d5867b/dashboards/lighttpd/lighttpd01.png

src/content/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/lighttpd-integration.mdx, after:

---
title: Lighttpd integration
tags:
   - Lighttpd  integration
   - New Relic integrations
metaDescription: Install our Lighttpd dashboards and see your Lighttpd  data in New Relic.
---
import infrastructureLighttptdDashboard from 'images/infrastructure_screenshot-full_Lighttptd-dashboard.png'


With our Lighttpd dashboard, your team can monitor outcome measures and inventory data.   Lighttpd monitoring provides important information to help you construct a complete picture of your web server's performance. This performance data includes uptime, network in bytes and packets, number of connections, and more. Metric data can be seen on our pre-built dashboards, and you can also create your own custom searches, graphs, and alert policies. Our Lighttpd integration uses a Nri-Flex setup.

<img
  title="Lighttpd dashboard"
  alt="A screenshot depicting the Lighttpd dashboard"
  src={infrastructureLighttptdDashboard}
/>

<figcaption>
After setting up the integration with New Relic, see your data in dashboards like these, right out of the box.
</figcaption>

## Install the infrastructure agent [#infra]

To get data into New Relic, install our infrastructure agent. Our infrastructure agent collects and ingests data so you can keep track of your app's performance. The version should be 1.10.7 or later to support NRI-Flex integration.

You can install the infrastructure agent two different ways:

* Our [guided install](https://one.newrelic.com/nr1-core?state=4f81feab-35f7-e97e-9903-52510f8542bd) is a CLI tool that inspects your system and installs the infrastructure agent alongside the application monitoring agent that best works for your system. To learn more about how our guided install works, check out our [Guided install overview](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/installation/new-relic-guided-install-overview).
* If you'd rather install our infrastructure agent manually, you can follow a tutorial for manual installation for [Linux](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/linux-installation/install-infrastructure-monitoring-agent-linux), [Windows](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/windows-installation/install-infrastructure-monitoring-agent-windows/), or [macOS](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/macos-installation/install-infrastructure-monitoring-agent-macos/).

## Integrate Lighttpd with New Relic [#integrate]

Once installed, the infrastructure agent can ingest data from your app and send it to New Relic, but you still need to integrate – or establish a line of communication – between the agent and your app. Once integrated, you can get started with an out of the box monitoring solution for your Lighttpd app. 

<Steps>
<Step>
### Manually configure the lighttpd.conf file

To export metrics on the url `127.0.0.1:9880/server-status?format=plain`, use the following steps:

1. Go to lighttpd config file path.
```
cd /etc/lighttpd/
```
2. Open `lighttpd.conf` file to edit.
```
sudo nano lighttpd.conf
```

3. Add `mod_status` inside `server.modules` object.
4. Add status.status-url = `/server-status` after server.modules.
5. Update `server.document-root` with the lighttpd file path `/var/www/html/lighttpd-webpage`
6. Update `server.port` on which you're running lighttpd. 
```
server.port to 9880.
 ```
7. Run `127.0.0.1:9880/server-status?auto` or  `127.0.0.1:9880/server-status?format=plain` on the browser to check server related metrics.

Here is a sample configuration file:

```
server.modules = (
    "mod_1indexfile",
    "mod_access”,
    "mod_alias",
    "mod_redirect”,
    "mod_status"
)

server.document-root	= "/var/www/html/1lighttpd-webpage"
server.upload-dirs	  = ( "/var/cache/lighttpd/uploads" )
server.errorlog		    = "/var/log/lighttpd/error.log"
server.pid-file		    = "/run/lighttpd.pid"
server.username		    = "www-data"
server.groupname	    = "www-data"
server.port		        = 9880
status.status-url	    = "/server-status”
```
</Step>


<Step>

## Nri-Flex configuration

First, follow the [installation steps](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-flex/blob/master/docs/basic-tutorial.md) of nri-flex from [nri-flex repository](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-flex)

Once you've installed the infrastructure agent on your host, nri-flex binary is also installed.

To create a flex configuration file follow these steps:

1. Create a file named `lighttpd-http-config.yml` on path `/etc/newrelic-infra/integrations.d`
Note: A generic file name could be &ltFILENAME&gt-config.yml

Path:
```
/etc/newrelic-infra/integrations.d
```

2. Add the following configuration to your `lighttpd-http-config.yml` file:

You can see a sample configuration file [here](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-flex/blob/master/examples/lighttpd-http-example.yml).

It's important to not that you can replace `base_url` and `url` with your application url (Please refer to url documentation for more understanding) and also change url in the `commands` attribute. You can also convert the metrics format which you get through url into regex and add expressions in regex_matches. EVENT_TYPE is also adjustable. 

Once your configuration file is updated, it will look like this:

```
---
integrations:
  - name: nri-flex
    # interval: 30s
    config:
      name: lighttpdFlex
      global:
        base_url: http://lighttpd.net/
      apis:
        - event_type: status
          url: status?format=plain
        - event_type: &lTHE_PLACE_WHERE_METRICS_ARE_CAPTURED&gt
          commands:
            - cache: status?format=plain
              split_by: ": "
          snake_to_camel: true


  - name: nri-flex
    interval: 10s
    # timeout: 5s
    config:
      name: test
      apis:
        - event_type: &ltTHE_PLACE_WHERE_METRICS_ARE_CAPTURED&gt
          commands:
            - run: curl 'http://lighttpd.net/status?auto'
              split_by: ": "
              regex_matches:
                - expression: (\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)\n(\w+ \w+|\w+):(\N+)
```

</Step>

<Step>

### Restart the New Relic infra agent and lighttpd service

To restart the New Relic infra agent follow [these](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/manage-your-agent/start-stop-restart-infrastructure-agent/) instructions and run this command.

```
sudo systemctl restart lighttpd.service && sudo systemctl restart newrelic-infra.service
```
</Step>

<Step>
###  Query your data using NRQL

You can use this sample query to view your Lighttpd metrics captured on [one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities):

```
FROM <EVENT_TYPE> SELECT * LIMIT MAX 
```

EVENT_TYPE should match with the one you mentioned in the nri-flex config file.
</Step>

</Steps>

## See Lighttpd metrics in a dashboard [#dash]

With only the infrastructure agent installed and instrumented with your app, you can view your raw data in our Metrics & events. Our default dashboards transform that raw data into charts and graphs, which provide a bird's eye view of your system's health. To install our default dashboards, go to our Lighttpd instant observability page.
  
To instrument the Lighttpd quickstart and to see metrics and alerts, you can also follow our [Lighttpd quickstart page](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/lighttpd) by clicking on the “Install now” button.

## What's next?

To learn more about building NRQL queries and generating dashboards, check out these docs:

* [Introduction to the query builder](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/query-builder/introduction-query-builder) to create basic and advanced queries.
* [Introduction to dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards) to customize your dashboard and carry out different actions.
* [Manage your dashboard](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/manage-your-dashboard) to adjust your dashboards display mode, or to add more content to your dashboard.
