src/content/docs/logs/forward-logs/aws-lambda-sending-cloudwatch-logs.mdx, before:

---
title: AWS Lambda for sending CloudWatch logs
tags:
  - Logs
  - Enable log management in New Relic
  - Enable log monitoring in New Relic
translate:
  - kr
metaDescription: 'Install and configure New Relic logging for AWS Lambda with CloudWatch logs, so you can use enhanced log management capabilities.'
redirects:
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs/enable-new-relic-logs-aws-lambda
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs/enable-new-relic-logs-aws-cloudwatch
  - /docs/logs/enable-logs/enable-logs/aws-cloudwatch-plugin-logs
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/aws-lambda-sending-cloudwatch-logs
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/aws-lambda-sending-cloudwatch-logs
dataSource: amazon-cloudwatch
---

You can send your [Amazon CloudWatch logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/WhatIsCloudWatchLogs.html) to New Relic using our AWS Lambda function, `newrelic-log-ingestion`. This can be easily deployed from the AWS Serverless application repository.

Forwarding your CloudWatch logs to New Relic will give you enhanced log management capabilities to collect, process, explore, query, and alert on your log data.

## Install and configure the CloudWatch logs Lambda function [#install-function]

The following setup shows one approach for configuring environment variables. You can also configure them from the [Functions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-envvars.html) page.

Complete the following:

1. Make sure you have a <LicenseKey/>.
2. Open the [AWS Serverless Application Repository](https://serverlessrepo.aws.amazon.com/applications) in your browser.
3. Search for `newrelic` and check **Show apps that create custom IAM roles or resource policies** to find `newrelic-log-ingestion`.
4. Open the `newrelic-log-ingestion` details and click **Deploy**.
5. In the function's **Configure** menu, go to **Environment Variables** and configure log forwarding using the following environment variables:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        Key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `DEBUG_LOGGING_ENABLED`
      </td>

      <td>
        A boolean to determine if you want to output debug messages in the CloudWatch console. **Optional.**

        To turn on debug logs, set this to `true`. Default is `false`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `LICENSE_KEY`
      </td>

      <td>
        <LicenseKey/> is used for sending data to New Relic. **Required.**
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `LOGGING_ENABLED`
      </td>

      <td>
        Determines if logs are forwarded to New Relic. **Required.** To turn on logging, set this to `true`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `NR_TAGS`
      </td>

      <td>
        Specify tags to be added to all log events. **Optional.**

        Each tag is composed of a colon-delimited key and value. Multiple key-value pairs are semicolon-delimited; for example, `env:prod;team:myTeam`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `NR_LAMBDA_LOG_GROUP_PREFIX`
      </td>

      <td>
        If you've configured your Lambda log group to use a different path than `/aws/lambda`, you can specify it with this variable. **Optional.**
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `NR_VPC_LOG_GROUP_PREFIX`
      </td>

      <td>
        If you've configured your VPC log group to use a different path than `/aws/vpc/flow-log`, you can specify it with this variable. **Optional.**
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

6. Acknowledge that the app creates custom IAM roles, and then click **Deploy**.

Once the process completes, [create a Lambda trigger](#create-trigger) to link your Lambda function to CloudWatch logs.

## Create a Lambda trigger [#create-trigger]

Be sure to set up a trigger, not a log subscription, on the ingestion function. If a subscription was set up in the Lambda console, this could lead to a cascade of logs generated and forwarded to New Relic.

To get your logs streaming to New Relic, attach a trigger to the Lambda:

1. From the left side menu, select **Functions**.
2. Find and select the previously created `newrelic-log-ingestion` function.
3. Under **Designer**, click **Add Triggers**, and select **CloudWatch Logs** from the dropdown.
4. Select the the appropriate **Log group** for your application.
5. Enter a name for your filter.
6. Optional: Enter a [filter pattern](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/FilterAndPatternSyntax.html).
7. Check the **Enable trigger** checkbox, then click **Add** to create the trigger.

<InstallFeedback />

## Optional: Configure retries [#config-retries]

You can configure the number of retries you want to perform in case the function fails to send the data in case of communication issues. Recommended number is 3 retries, but you can change the retry behavior by changing the below parameters:

<Callout variant="tip">
  The more the number of retries there are can make the function run for longer times. This increases the probability of having higher costs for Lambda. However, decreasing the number of retries could increase the probability of data loss.
</Callout>

```
MAX_RETRIES = 3  # Defines the number of retries after lambda failure to deliver data
INITIAL_BACKOFF = 1  # Defines the initial wait seconds until next retry is executed
BACKOFF_MULTIPLIER = 2  # Time multiplier between the retries
As an example, in default above configuration, first retry will happen after 1 second, second retry after 2 seconds and third retry will happen after 4 seconds.
```

## Resources created by the SAM template [#sam-resources]

When you create the application from the repository, the following resources are also created:

* The Lambda function itself
* A role used to give execution permissions to the Lambda function based in CloudWatch Logs.

All other Lambda configurations not listed can be left as the defaults.

## View log data [#find-data]

If everything is configured correctly and your data is being collected, you should see data logs in both of these places:

* [New Relic's Logs UI](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/logger.log-launcher)
* New Relic tools for running [NRQL queries](/docs/chart-builder/use-chart-builder/choose-data/use-advanced-nrql-mode-specify-data). For example, you can execute a query like this:

```
SELECT * FROM Log
```

If no data appears after you enable our log management capabilities, follow our [standard log troubleshooting procedures](/docs/logs/log-management/troubleshooting/no-log-data-appears-ui/).

## What's next? [#what-next]

Explore [logging data across your platform](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/).

* Get deeper visibility into both your application and your platform performance data by forwarding your logs with our [logs in context](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents/) capabilities.
* Set up [alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-alert-conditions/).
* [Query your data](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/) and [create dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/).

## Disable log forwarding [#disable]

To disable log forwarding capabilities, follow standard procedures in [Amazon CloudWatch documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/WhatIsCloudWatchLogs.html). You do not need to do anything else in New Relic.

Commit message:

docs(loggin): Add extra info for FedRAMP endpoints

src/content/docs/logs/forward-logs/aws-lambda-sending-cloudwatch-logs.mdx, after:

---
title: AWS Lambda for sending CloudWatch logs
tags:
  - Logs
  - Enable log management in New Relic
  - Enable log monitoring in New Relic
translate:
  - kr
metaDescription: 'Install and configure New Relic logging for AWS Lambda with CloudWatch logs, so you can use enhanced log management capabilities.'
redirects:
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs/enable-new-relic-logs-aws-lambda
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs/enable-new-relic-logs-aws-cloudwatch
  - /docs/logs/enable-logs/enable-logs/aws-cloudwatch-plugin-logs
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/aws-lambda-sending-cloudwatch-logs
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/aws-lambda-sending-cloudwatch-logs
dataSource: amazon-cloudwatch
---

You can send your [Amazon CloudWatch logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/WhatIsCloudWatchLogs.html) to New Relic using our AWS Lambda function, `newrelic-log-ingestion`. This can be easily deployed from the AWS Serverless application repository.

Forwarding your CloudWatch logs to New Relic will give you enhanced log management capabilities to collect, process, explore, query, and alert on your log data.

## Install and configure the CloudWatch logs Lambda function [#install-function]

The following setup shows one approach for configuring environment variables. You can also configure them from the [Functions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-envvars.html) page.

Complete the following:

1. Make sure you have a <LicenseKey/>.
2. Open the [AWS Serverless Application Repository](https://serverlessrepo.aws.amazon.com/applications) in your browser.
3. Search for `newrelic` and check **Show apps that create custom IAM roles or resource policies** to find `newrelic-log-ingestion`.
4. Open the `newrelic-log-ingestion` details and click **Deploy**.
5. In the function's **Configure** menu, go to **Environment Variables** and configure log forwarding using the following environment variables:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        Key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `DEBUG_LOGGING_ENABLED`
      </td>

      <td>
        A boolean to determine if you want to output debug messages in the CloudWatch console. **Optional.**

        To turn on debug logs, set this to `true`. Default is `false`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `LICENSE_KEY`
      </td>

      <td>
        <LicenseKey/> is used for sending data to New Relic. **Required.**
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `LOGGING_ENABLED`
      </td>

      <td>
        Determines if logs are forwarded to New Relic. **Required.** To turn on logging, set this to `true`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `NR_TAGS`
      </td>

      <td>
        Specify tags to be added to all log events. **Optional.**

        Each tag is composed of a colon-delimited key and value. Multiple key-value pairs are semicolon-delimited; for example, `env:prod;team:myTeam`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `NR_LAMBDA_LOG_GROUP_PREFIX`
      </td>

      <td>
        If you've configured your Lambda log group to use a different path than `/aws/lambda`, you can specify it with this variable. **Optional.**
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `NR_VPC_LOG_GROUP_PREFIX`
      </td>

      <td>
        If you've configured your VPC log group to use a different path than `/aws/vpc/flow-log`, you can specify it with this variable. **Optional.**
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

6. Acknowledge that the app creates custom IAM roles, and then click **Deploy**.

Once the process completes, [create a Lambda trigger](#create-trigger) to link your Lambda function to CloudWatch logs.

## Create a Lambda trigger [#create-trigger]

Be sure to set up a trigger, not a log subscription, on the ingestion function. If a subscription was set up in the Lambda console, this could lead to a cascade of logs generated and forwarded to New Relic.

To get your logs streaming to New Relic, attach a trigger to the Lambda:

1. From the left side menu, select **Functions**.
2. Find and select the previously created `newrelic-log-ingestion` function.
3. Under **Designer**, click **Add Triggers**, and select **CloudWatch Logs** from the dropdown.
4. Select the the appropriate **Log group** for your application.
5. Enter a name for your filter.
6. Optional: Enter a [filter pattern](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/FilterAndPatternSyntax.html).
7. Check the **Enable trigger** checkbox, then click **Add** to create the trigger.

<InstallFeedback />

## Optional: Configure different logging endpoints [#config-endpoints]

You can set a custom logging endpoint if needed, this will allow you for example to use our FedRAMP compliant endpoints.

For that, you should deploy the application and explained above and then:

1. Go to the recently deployed lambda function view in AWS.
2. Scroll down and click on the `Configuration` tab.
3. On the left menu inside the `Configuration` tab, click on `Environment Variables`.
4. Here you can see a list of the already existing environment variables, just click `Edit` on the top right of the `Environment Variables` table.
5. Update the `NR_LOGGING_ENDPOINT` with the appropiate endpoint:
  - *US*: `https://log-api.newrelic.com/log/v1`
  - *EU*: `https://log-api.eu.newrelic.com/log/v1`
  - *FedRAMP*: `https://gov-log-api.newrelic.com/log/v1`
6. Save

## Optional: Configure retries [#config-retries]

You can configure the number of retries you want to perform in case the function fails to send the data in case of communication issues. Recommended number is 3 retries, but you can change the retry behavior by changing the below parameters:

<Callout variant="tip">
  The more the number of retries there are can make the function run for longer times. This increases the probability of having higher costs for Lambda. However, decreasing the number of retries could increase the probability of data loss.
</Callout>

```
MAX_RETRIES = 3  # Defines the number of retries after lambda failure to deliver data
INITIAL_BACKOFF = 1  # Defines the initial wait seconds until next retry is executed
BACKOFF_MULTIPLIER = 2  # Time multiplier between the retries
As an example, in default above configuration, first retry will happen after 1 second, second retry after 2 seconds and third retry will happen after 4 seconds.
```

## Resources created by the SAM template [#sam-resources]

When you create the application from the repository, the following resources are also created:

* The Lambda function itself
* A role used to give execution permissions to the Lambda function based in CloudWatch Logs.

All other Lambda configurations not listed can be left as the defaults.

## View log data [#find-data]

If everything is configured correctly and your data is being collected, you should see data logs in both of these places:

* [New Relic's Logs UI](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/logger.log-launcher)
* New Relic tools for running [NRQL queries](/docs/chart-builder/use-chart-builder/choose-data/use-advanced-nrql-mode-specify-data). For example, you can execute a query like this:

```
SELECT * FROM Log
```

If no data appears after you enable our log management capabilities, follow our [standard log troubleshooting procedures](/docs/logs/log-management/troubleshooting/no-log-data-appears-ui/).

## What's next? [#what-next]

Explore [logging data across your platform](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/).

* Get deeper visibility into both your application and your platform performance data by forwarding your logs with our [logs in context](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents/) capabilities.
* Set up [alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-alert-conditions/).
* [Query your data](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/) and [create dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/).

## Disable log forwarding [#disable]

To disable log forwarding capabilities, follow standard procedures in [Amazon CloudWatch documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/WhatIsCloudWatchLogs.html). You do not need to do anything else in New Relic.
