src/content/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/scripting-monitors/write-synthetic-api-tests.mdx, before:

---
title: Write synthetic API tests
tags:
  - Synthetics
  - Synthetic monitoring
  - Scripting monitors
translate:
  - jp 
metaDescription: Use API test scripts to ensure your API endpoint is functioning correctly.
redirects:
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-api-tests
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-api-tests
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-synthetics-api-tests
---

import syntheticApiTestScript from 'images/synthetic_screenshot-crop_api-test-script.png'

<Callout variant="important">
  This document is targeted to the Node.js 16.10 scripted API runtime and newer. [Details for the `http-request` based Node.js 10 and older runtimes](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/scripting-monitors/write-synthetic-api-tests-legacy)
</Callout>

Use synthetic monitoring's [API tests](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/types-synthetics-monitors) to monitor your API endpoint to ensure it is functioning correctly. New Relic uses the [got module](https://github.com/sindresorhus/got) internally to make HTTP calls to your endpoint and validate the results.

Here we present some example functions showing how to use the `$http` object to submit your request. The `$http` object provides a custom `request`-like experience while being powered by `got` to provide backward compatibility for basic use cases while avoiding the use of the deprecated `request` module. Not all advanced use cases of `request` are or will be supported by this backward compatibility. For detailed documentation on the options available for this object, see the [got module readme](https://github.com/sindresorhus/got). The `got` module documentation includes [a migration guide](https://github.com/sindresorhus/got/blob/main/documentation/migration-guides/request.md) highlighting changes to expect from the `request` module used in previous scripted API runtimes. 

The `request`-like experience provided by the `$http` object will also be returned for any customers attempting to use `request` directly in Node.js 16 and newer scripted API runtimes.

<Callout variant="tip">
  To view and share other API test examples, visit the [synthetics scripts](https://discuss.newrelic.com/tags/c/full-stack-observability/synthetic/81/script) section in Support Forum or the [Synthetic Monitoring Quickstarts Library](https://newrelic.github.io/quickstarts-synthetics-library/#/).
</Callout>

## Use API got module [#overview]

API tests are powered by the [got module](https://github.com/sindresorhus/got), which is available through the `$http` object. For instructions on creating a monitor, see [Adding monitors](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/adding-editing-monitors#adding-monitors).

Read on to learn how to [define metadata for your request](#request-options), [make a GET request](#get), [make a POST request](#post), and how to [validate the results](#validating).

Result timing details will be provided as long as you use the `$http` object. For scripted API use cases not covered by the `$http` object, you can use the `$har` object to [report custom timing details](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/scripting-monitors/custom-timing-details/).

<Callout variant="important">
  After a maximum run time of three minutes, New Relic manually stops the script.
</Callout>

<img
  title="syntheticApiTestScript"
  alt="syntheticApiTestScript"
  src={syntheticApiTestScript}
/>

<figcaption>
 **[one.newrelic.com > Synthetic monitoring > Create monitor](https://one.newrelic.com/synthetics-nerdlets/monitor-create)**: The script editor suggests functions, selectors, and other elements to simplify [scripting commands (available in GitHub)](https://github.com/request/request).
</figcaption>

## Configure request options [#request-options]

To start your script:

* Declare a variable (such as `options`) to store your [got options object](https://github.com/sindresorhus/got/blob/main/documentation/2-options.md).
* Define request options such as the URL endpoint and custom headers.

<Callout variant="tip">
  For a full list of supported options, see [got options](https://github.com/sindresorhus/got/blob/main/documentation/2-options.md) in the `got` documentation on GitHub.
</Callout>

Here's an example of optional metadata in the options object:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="metadata-1"
    title="Using optional metadata"
  >
    ```
    //Declare optional metadata
    var options = {
            //Specify the endpoint URL
            url: 'https://api-endpoint.example.com',
            //Specify optional headers
            headers: {
                    'Endpoint-Key': 'uqNTC57Phe72pnnB8JuJmwAr7b09nKSKSz',
                    'Additional-Header': 'Additional-Header-Data'
            }
    };
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Send a GET request [#get]

To make a GET request, use the [`$http.get`](https://github.com/request/request#requestget) method to submit your request. Define your [request options](#request-options), make your request using `$http.get`, then [validate](#validating) the response to ensure your endpoint is returning the correct results.

## Send a POST request [#post]

To make a POST request, use the [`$http.post`](https://github.com/request/request#requestpost) method to submit your request. Define your [request options](#request-options), make your request using `$http.post`, then [validate](#validating) the response to ensure your endpoint is returning the correct results.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="get-nerdgraph-example"
    title="NerdGraph example"
  >
    This example queries our [NerdGraph API](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph):

    ```
    // Define your authentication credentials
    const myAccountId = '{YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID}';
    const myAPIKey = '{YOUR_API_KEY}';

    const options = {
      // Define endpoint URI, https://api.eu.newrelic.com/graphql for EU accounts
      uri: 'https://api.newrelic.com/graphql',
      headers: {
        'API-key': myAPIKey,
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
      },
      body: JSON.stringify({
        query: `
          query getNrqlResults($accountId: Int!, $nrql: Nrql!) {
            actor {
              account(id: $accountId) {
                nrql(query: $nrql) {
                  results
                }
              }
            }
          }
        `,
        variables: {
          accountId: Number(myAccountId),
          nrql: 'SELECT average(duration) FROM Transaction',
        },
      }),
    };

    // Define expected results using callback function
    function callback(err, response, body) {
      // Log JSON results from endpoint to Synthetics console
      console.log(body);
      console.log('Script execution completed');
    }

    // Make POST request, passing in options and callback
    $http.post(options, callback);
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="post-insights-example"
    title="Event API POST example"
  >
    This example POSTs a custom event containing static integers to the [Event API](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/adding-querying-data/inserting-custom-events):

    ```
    //Define your authentication credentials.
    var myAccountID = '{YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID}';
    var myAPIKey = '{YOUR_API_KEY}';
    //Import the <a href="https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/assert.html">'assert' module</a> to validate results.
    var assert = require('assert');

    var options = {
        //Define endpoint URL.
        url: "https://insights-collector.newrelic.com/v1/accounts/"+myAccountID+"/events",
        //Define body of POST request.
        body: '[{"eventType":"SyntheticsEvent","integer1":1000,"integer2":2000}]',
        //Define New Relic API key and expected data type.
        headers: {
            'Api-Key': myAPIKey,
            'Content-Type': 'application/json'
            }
    };

    //Define expected results using callback function.
    function callback(error, response, body) {
        //Log status code to Synthetics console.
        console.log(response.statusCode + " status code")
        //Verify endpoint returns 200 (OK) response code.
        assert.ok(response.statusCode == 200, 'Expected 200 OK response');
        //Verify that `body` contains element named `success` with a value of `true`.
        assert.ok(body.success == true, 'Expected True results in Response Body, result was ' + body.success);
        //Log end of script.
        console.log("End reached");
    }

    //Make POST request, passing in options and callback.
    $http.post(options, callback);
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Validate results [#validating]

To validate your results, import the `assert` module to define your test case. Call an `assert` method to validate your endpoint's response. If any `assert` functions fail, the entire monitor will be considered a failed check. This may trigger [alert notifications](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics#alerts) and affect your metrics.

<Callout variant="important">
  Synthetic monitoring does not allow thrown exceptions. Thrown exceptions result in script failure. Use the `assert` module to validate your results, and use `console.log()` to [log results to the synthetic's console](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-scripted-browsers#logging).
</Callout>

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="validation-insights-example"
    title="Event API validation example"
  >
    This example POSTs to the Event API, then validates that the response is `{"success":true}`:

    ```
    //Define your authentication credentials.
    var myAccountID = '{YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID}';
    var myAPIKey = '{YOUR_API_KEY}';
    //Import the `assert` module to validate results.
    var assert = require('assert');

    var options = {
        //Define endpoint URL.
        url: "https://insights-collector.newrelic.com/v1/accounts/"+myAccountID+"/events",
        //Define body of POST request.
        body: '[{"eventType":"SyntheticsEvent","integer1":1000,"integer2":2000}]',
        //Define New Relic API key and expected data type.
        headers: {
            'Api-Key': myAPIKey,
            'Content-Type': 'application/json'
            }
    };

    $http.post(options, function(error, response, body) {
        //Log status code to Synthetics console. The status code is logged before the `assert` function, 
        //because a failed assert function ends the script.
        console.log(response.statusCode + " status code")
        //Call `assert` method, expecting a `200` response code.
        //If assertion fails, log `Expected 200 OK response` as error message to Synthetics console.
        assert.ok(response.statusCode == 200, 'Expected 200 OK response');  
        //Call `assert` method, expecting body to return `{"success":true}`.
        //If assertion fails, log `Expected True results in Response Body,` plus results as error message to Synthetics console. 
        assert.ok(body.success == true, 'Expected True results in Response Body, result was ' + body.success);
    });
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

If you haven't already, create your free New Relic account below to start monitoring your data today.
<InlineSignup/>

Commit message:

feat(sonic): added deep links when appropriate to top 10 synth docs, light content changes

src/content/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/scripting-monitors/write-synthetic-api-tests.mdx, after:

---
title: Write synthetic API tests
tags:
  - Synthetics
  - Synthetic monitoring
  - Scripting monitors
translate:
  - jp 
metaDescription: Use API test scripts to ensure your API endpoint is functioning correctly.
redirects:
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-api-tests
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-api-tests
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-synthetics-api-tests
---

import syntheticApiTestScript from 'images/synthetic_screenshot-crop_api-test-script.png'

<Callout variant="important">
  This document is targeted to the Node.js 16.10 scripted API runtime and newer. [Details for the `http-request` based Node.js 10 and older runtimes](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/scripting-monitors/write-synthetic-api-tests-legacy)
</Callout>

Scripted API monitors check your API endpoints to ensure they're functioning correctly. To create a scripted API monitor, go to **[one.newrelic.com > Synthetic monitoring > Create a monitor](https://one.newrelic.com/synthetics-nerdlets/monitor-create)**, then select the **Endpoint availability** tile. 

<Callout variant="tip">
  To view and share other API test examples, visit the [synthetics scripts](https://discuss.newrelic.com/tags/c/full-stack-observability/synthetic/81/script) section in Support Forum or the [Synthetic Monitoring Quickstarts Library](https://newrelic.github.io/quickstarts-synthetics-library/#/).
</Callout>

## Use API got module [#overview]

API tests are powered by the [got module](https://github.com/sindresorhus/got), which is available through the `$http` object. The `$http` object provides a custom `request`-like experience with `got`, giving your monitors backwards compatibility for basic use cases. The `request`-like experience provided by the `$http` object will also be returned for any customers attempting to use `request` directly in Node.js 16 and newer scripted API runtimes.

Result timing details will be provided as long as you use the `$http` object. For scripted API use cases not covered by the `$http` object, you can use the `$har` object to [report custom timing details](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/scripting-monitors/custom-timing-details/).

<Callout variant="important">
  After a maximum run time of three minutes, New Relic manually stops the script.
</Callout>

<img
  title="syntheticApiTestScript"
  alt="syntheticApiTestScript"
  src={syntheticApiTestScript}
/>

<figcaption>
 **[one.newrelic.com > Synthetic monitoring > Create monitor](https://one.newrelic.com/synthetics-nerdlets/monitor-create)**: The script editor suggests functions, selectors, and other elements to simplify [scripting commands (available in GitHub)](https://github.com/request/request).
</figcaption>

## Configure request options [#request-options]

To start your script:

* Declare a variable (such as `options`) to store your [got options object](https://github.com/sindresorhus/got/blob/main/documentation/2-options.md).
* Define request options such as the URL endpoint and custom headers.

<Callout variant="tip">
  For a full list of supported options, see [got options](https://github.com/sindresorhus/got/blob/main/documentation/2-options.md) in the `got` documentation on GitHub.
</Callout>

Here's an example of optional metadata in the options object:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="metadata-1"
    title="Using optional metadata"
  >
    ```
    //Declare optional metadata
    var options = {
            //Specify the endpoint URL
            url: 'https://api-endpoint.example.com',
            //Specify optional headers
            headers: {
                    'Endpoint-Key': 'uqNTC57Phe72pnnB8JuJmwAr7b09nKSKSz',
                    'Additional-Header': 'Additional-Header-Data'
            }
    };
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Send a GET request [#get]

To make a GET request, use the [`$http.get`](https://github.com/request/request#requestget) method to submit your request. Define your [request options](#request-options), make your request using `$http.get`, then [validate](#validating) the response to ensure your endpoint is returning the correct results.

## Send a POST request [#post]

To make a POST request, use the [`$http.post`](https://github.com/request/request#requestpost) method to submit your request. Define your [request options](#request-options), make your request using `$http.post`, then [validate](#validating) the response to ensure your endpoint is returning the correct results.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="get-nerdgraph-example"
    title="NerdGraph example"
  >
    This example queries our [NerdGraph API](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph):

    ```
    // Define your authentication credentials
    const myAccountId = '{YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID}';
    const myAPIKey = '{YOUR_API_KEY}';

    const options = {
      // Define endpoint URI, https://api.eu.newrelic.com/graphql for EU accounts
      uri: 'https://api.newrelic.com/graphql',
      headers: {
        'API-key': myAPIKey,
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
      },
      body: JSON.stringify({
        query: `
          query getNrqlResults($accountId: Int!, $nrql: Nrql!) {
            actor {
              account(id: $accountId) {
                nrql(query: $nrql) {
                  results
                }
              }
            }
          }
        `,
        variables: {
          accountId: Number(myAccountId),
          nrql: 'SELECT average(duration) FROM Transaction',
        },
      }),
    };

    // Define expected results using callback function
    function callback(err, response, body) {
      // Log JSON results from endpoint to Synthetics console
      console.log(body);
      console.log('Script execution completed');
    }

    // Make POST request, passing in options and callback
    $http.post(options, callback);
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="post-insights-example"
    title="Event API POST example"
  >
    This example POSTs a custom event containing static integers to the [Event API](/docs/insights/new-relic-insights/adding-querying-data/inserting-custom-events):

    ```
    //Define your authentication credentials.
    var myAccountID = '{YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID}';
    var myAPIKey = '{YOUR_API_KEY}';
    //Import the <a href="https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/assert.html">'assert' module</a> to validate results.
    var assert = require('assert');

    var options = {
        //Define endpoint URL.
        url: "https://insights-collector.newrelic.com/v1/accounts/"+myAccountID+"/events",
        //Define body of POST request.
        body: '[{"eventType":"SyntheticsEvent","integer1":1000,"integer2":2000}]',
        //Define New Relic API key and expected data type.
        headers: {
            'Api-Key': myAPIKey,
            'Content-Type': 'application/json'
            }
    };

    //Define expected results using callback function.
    function callback(error, response, body) {
        //Log status code to Synthetics console.
        console.log(response.statusCode + " status code")
        //Verify endpoint returns 200 (OK) response code.
        assert.ok(response.statusCode == 200, 'Expected 200 OK response');
        //Verify that `body` contains element named `success` with a value of `true`.
        assert.ok(body.success == true, 'Expected True results in Response Body, result was ' + body.success);
        //Log end of script.
        console.log("End reached");
    }

    //Make POST request, passing in options and callback.
    $http.post(options, callback);
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Validate results [#validating]

To validate your results, import the `assert` module to define your test case. Call an `assert` method to validate your endpoint's response. If any `assert` functions fail, the entire monitor will be considered a failed check. This may trigger [alert notifications](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics#alerts) and affect your metrics.

<Callout variant="important">
  Synthetic monitoring does not allow thrown exceptions. Thrown exceptions result in script failure. Use the `assert` module to validate your results, and use `console.log()` to [log results to the synthetic's console](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-scripted-browsers#logging).
</Callout>

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="validation-insights-example"
    title="Event API validation example"
  >
    This example POSTs to the Event API, then validates that the response is `{"success":true}`:

    ```
    //Define your authentication credentials.
    var myAccountID = '{YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID}';
    var myAPIKey = '{YOUR_API_KEY}';
    //Import the `assert` module to validate results.
    var assert = require('assert');

    var options = {
        //Define endpoint URL.
        url: "https://insights-collector.newrelic.com/v1/accounts/"+myAccountID+"/events",
        //Define body of POST request.
        body: '[{"eventType":"SyntheticsEvent","integer1":1000,"integer2":2000}]',
        //Define New Relic API key and expected data type.
        headers: {
            'Api-Key': myAPIKey,
            'Content-Type': 'application/json'
            }
    };

    $http.post(options, function(error, response, body) {
        //Log status code to Synthetics console. The status code is logged before the `assert` function, 
        //because a failed assert function ends the script.
        console.log(response.statusCode + " status code")
        //Call `assert` method, expecting a `200` response code.
        //If assertion fails, log `Expected 200 OK response` as error message to Synthetics console.
        assert.ok(response.statusCode == 200, 'Expected 200 OK response');  
        //Call `assert` method, expecting body to return `{"success":true}`.
        //If assertion fails, log `Expected True results in Response Body,` plus results as error message to Synthetics console. 
        assert.ok(body.success == true, 'Expected True results in Response Body, result was ' + body.success);
    });
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

If you haven't already, create your free New Relic account below to start monitoring your data today.
<InlineSignup/>
