src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/ios-sdk-api/disable-features.mdx, before:

---
title: disableFeatures (iOS SDK API)
type: apiDoc
shortDescription: Set this bit-wise flag to disable features.
tags:
  - Mobile monitoring
  - New Relic Mobile iOS
  - iOS SDK API
metaDescription: New Relic for iOS mobile app monitoring API to disable features.
---

## Syntax

```
- (void) disableFeatures:(NRMAFeatureFlags)featureFlags;
```

Set this bit-wise flag to disable features.

## Requirements

Compatible with all agent versions.

## Description

The `disableFeatures` API can be used to disable features you don't want to run. 
For more information on the flags that can be disabled see [iOS agent configuration and feature flags](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/api-guides/ios-agent-configuration-feature-flags). 

<Callout variant="important">
This function must be called just before calling:

Objective-C: +[NewRelic startWithApplicationToken:]
Swift: NewRelic.start(withApplicationToken:)   
</Callout>

## Parameters

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th width="25%">
        Parameter
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `$featureFlags`

        NRMAFeatureFlags
      </td>

      <td>
        Required. The bit-wise flags to disable features.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


## Examples

### Objective-C [#obj-c]

**Method:**

```
+[NewRelic disableFeatures:(NRMAFeatureFlags)flags];
```

**Examples:**

Objective-C example:

```
[NewRelic disableFeatures:NRFeatureFlag_NSURLSessionInstrumentation | NRFeatureFlag_CrashReporting]; 
```

Swift example:

```
 NewRelic.disableFeatures([ NRMAFeatureFlags.NRFeatureFlag_CrashReporting, NRMAFeatureFlags.NRFeatureFlag_WebViewInstrumentation ])
```

Commit message:

Added a callout explaining not to use recordHandledException with Swift code, changed the callouts in enable/disableFeatures

src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/ios-sdk-api/disable-features.mdx, after:

---
title: disableFeatures (iOS SDK API)
type: apiDoc
shortDescription: Set this bit-wise flag to disable features.
tags:
  - Mobile monitoring
  - New Relic Mobile iOS
  - iOS SDK API
metaDescription: New Relic for iOS mobile app monitoring API to disable features.
---

## Syntax

```
- (void) disableFeatures:(NRMAFeatureFlags)featureFlags;
```

Set this bit-wise flag to disable features.

## Requirements

Compatible with all agent versions.

## Description

The `disableFeatures` API can be used to disable features you don't want to run. 
For more information on the flags that can be disabled see [iOS agent configuration and feature flags](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/api-guides/ios-agent-configuration-feature-flags). 

<Callout variant="important">
This function must be called before calling `startWithApplicationToken` for the settings to take effect.
</Callout>

## Parameters

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th width="25%">
        Parameter
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `$featureFlags`

        NRMAFeatureFlags
      </td>

      <td>
        Required. The bit-wise flags to disable features.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


## Examples

### Objective-C [#obj-c]

**Method:**

```
+[NewRelic disableFeatures:(NRMAFeatureFlags)flags];
```

**Examples:**

Objective-C example:

```
[NewRelic disableFeatures:NRFeatureFlag_NSURLSessionInstrumentation | NRFeatureFlag_CrashReporting]; 
```

Swift example:

```
 NewRelic.disableFeatures([ NRMAFeatureFlags.NRFeatureFlag_CrashReporting, NRMAFeatureFlags.NRFeatureFlag_WebViewInstrumentation ])
```
