src/content/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/cumulative-metrics-transition-guide.mdx, before:

---
title: Transition guide for OpenTelemetry cumulative sum metrics
metaDescription: 'A transition guide about a change in how New Relic handles OpenTelemetry cumulative sum metrics, and how to update your queries and alerts for that change.'
redirects: 
---

Our OTLP metric pipeline is being upgraded to better support how we handle [cumulative metrics](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/metric-data/cumulative-metrics). As part of this upgrade we're transitioning the underlying [metric data type](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/metric-data/metric-data-type/#metric-types) for [monotonic cumulative sums](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/metrics/data-model/#sums) from a `gauge` type to the `cumulativeCount` type. The `cumulativeCount` type allows you to query both the cumulative and delta value associated with reported data. 

Starting March 14, 2023, new accounts will have access to this new `cumulativeCount` type, but if your account was sending cumulative monotonic sums prior to March 14th, you won't have access to that metric type until June 13. On that date, the use of our `gauge` metric type for cumulative sums will be deprecated and reach end-of-life (EoL), and your cumulative sums will be stored as the `cumulativeCount` type. 

**This 90 day EoL period is to give you time to update queries and alerts that make use of the affected metrics.** The sections below will teach you: 

* How to know if your account is impacted
* How to prepare for the EoL
* How to preview the `cumulativeCount` functionality 

<Callout variant="important">
Non-monotonic cumulative sums will **not** be affected by this upgrade.
</Callout>

## Check your account for impact [#impact]

If your New Relic account was sending OTLP cumulative sum metrics to New Relic before March 14, 2023, then you'll be impacted by the EoL on June 13, 2023. 

To check if your account is impacted, run the following NRQL query:

```
FROM NrIntegrationError SELECT count(*) 
WHERE newRelicFeature = 'cumulativeSumAsGaugeEoL' 
SINCE 24 hours ago
```

The query will return results if you've reported metrics impacted by this EoL in the last 24 hours. 

To investigate further, you can view the event message to see which metrics are affected:

```
FROM NrIntegrationError SELECT uniques(metricName)
WHERE newRelicFeature = 'cumulativeSumAsGaugeEoL' 
LIMIT MAX SINCE 24 hours ago
```

Any monitoring or alerting involving these metrics will need to be reviewed and updated prior to the EoL date. The next section contains suggested actions for impacted metrics. 

## What to do if you're impacted [#what-to-do]

On June 13, the reporting of OTLP monotonic cumulative sum metrics will switch from using the `gauge` to `cumulativeCount`. If you're using those metrics, you'll want to prepare for that. For example, you may want to create duplicate alert conditions with the new metric type so that, when the switch happens, you won't have a disruption (and we explain how to do that below).

Our [OpenTelemetry best practices](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-best-practices-metrics#query) outline the differences in querying between a `gauge` and a `cumulativeCount` metric type. Namely, you'll be able to target either the delta value (by default) or the cumulative value by selecting the cumulative field. 

Below we focus on updating [alert conditions](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-nrql-alert-conditions), because alerts are generally more important than charts. For your custom charts, you can either:

* Take the same general approach we describe for alerts (create a new chart with an updated query and erase the old chart after the EoL), OR
* Wait until after the EoL and update the charts

## Suggested action: Create new versions of alerts [#alerts]

Here are some examples of queries that might be used in alert condition. We'll give you the original query, then a `gauge` version of the query, and a `cumulativeCount` version of the query. You should replace your existing alert with the `gauge` version of the query, and create a duplicate alert condition that uses the `cumulativeCount` version. That way, when we transition your account to `cumulativeCount` on June 16, that alert condition will be available when the old query no longer works. 

### Cumulative queries [#cumulative-queries]

Original query: 
```
FROM Metric SELECT latest(<metricName>)
```

Gauge version of the query:
``` 
FROM Metric SELECT latest(<metricName>) 
WHERE <metricName>[type] = 'gauge'
```

Cumulative count version of the query: 
```
FROM Metric SELECT latest(<metricName>[cumulative]) 
WHERE <metricName>[type] = 'cumulativeCount'
```

### Rate of change queries [#rate-of-change-queries]

Original query: 

```
FROM Metric SELECT derivative(<metricName>, 1 minute)
```

Gauge version of query:
``` 
FROM Metric SELECT derivative(<metricName>, 1 minute) 
WHERE <metricName>[type] = 'gauge'
```

Cumulative count version of query:

```
FROM Metric SELECT rate(sum(<metricName>[cumulative]), 1 minute) 
WHERE <metricName>[type] = 'cumulativeCount'
```

## Suggested action: preview cumulativeCount before the EoL [#preview]

Affected accounts will continue to have their cumulative sums stored as `gauge` types until the EoL. However, optionally, you can try out `cumulativeCount` before the EoL to validate your queries and alerts are behaving as expected. To test `cumuativeCount` types early, add the following attribute to OTLP data you send to New Relic:

```
newrelic_metric_type=cumulativeCount
```

<Callout variant="important">
When you start sending `newrelic_metric_type=cumulativeCount` on your data, any cumulative monotonic sums we receive will be translated into `cumulativeCount` types. This means any existing queries or alerts set up to target a `gauge` type will no longer be valid. Keep this in mind when testing the `cumulativeCount` experience. To return to the `gauge` type, simply stop setting the `newrelic_metric_type` attribute. 
</Callout>

### Instrumentation library [#instrumentation-library]

If you're using an OTLP instrumentation library within your code base, you should reference the [appropriate language SDK](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/opentelemetry-set-up-your-app/#instrument) for your application. Any method of adding the attribute `newrelic_metric_type=cumulativeCount` to individual metric data points or to the resource attribute level should be sufficient. 

Here's an example of adding the attribute directly to the reporting metric in the Java SDK:

```
final var meter = openTelemetry.meterBuilder("manual-instrumentation-scope")
                .setInstrumentationVersion("1.0.0")
                .build();
final LongCounter counter = meter.counterBuilder("myCumulativeCounter")
                .build();
counter.add(1, Attributes.of(stringKey("newrelic_metric_type"), "cumulativeCount"));
```

### Collector [#collector]

If the source of your OTLP monitoring is coming from the OTLP collector, you can use the OpenTelemetry [attributes processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/processor/attributesprocessor/README.md) to add the attribute before it's sent to your exporters. For example, the following snippet will insert the `newrelic_metric_type=cumulativeCount` attribute:

```
…
attributes:
  actions:
    - key: newrelic_metric_type
      action: insert
      value: cumulativeCount
…
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      …
      processors: [...,attributes,...]
      …
```

### Checking results [#checking-results]

After setting `newrelic_metric_type=cumulativeCount` in your metric data, you can check that we're receiving it correctly with this query:

```
FROM Metric SELECT count(*) WHERE %[type] = 'cumulativeCount' TIMESERIES
```

Commit message:

fix(cumulative metrics): more detail alert change

src/content/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/cumulative-metrics-transition-guide.mdx, after:

---
title: Transition guide for OpenTelemetry cumulative sum metrics
metaDescription: 'A transition guide about a change in how New Relic handles OpenTelemetry cumulative sum metrics, and how to update your queries and alerts for that change.'
redirects: 
---

Our OTLP metric pipeline is being upgraded to better support how we handle [cumulative metrics](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/metric-data/cumulative-metrics). As part of this upgrade we're transitioning the underlying [metric data type](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/metric-data/metric-data-type/#metric-types) for [monotonic cumulative sums](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/metrics/data-model/#sums) from a `gauge` type to the `cumulativeCount` type. The `cumulativeCount` type allows you to query both the cumulative and delta value associated with reported data. 

Starting March 14, 2023, new accounts will have access to this new `cumulativeCount` type, but if your account was sending cumulative monotonic sums prior to March 14th, you won't have access to that metric type until June 13. On that date, the use of our `gauge` metric type for cumulative sums will be deprecated and reach end-of-life (EoL), and your cumulative sums will be stored as the `cumulativeCount` type. 

**This 90 day EoL period is to give you time to update queries and alerts that make use of the affected metrics.** The sections below will teach you: 

* How to know if your account is impacted
* How to prepare for the EoL
* How to preview the `cumulativeCount` functionality 

<Callout variant="important">
Cumulative sums that are non-monotonic will **not** be affected.
</Callout>

## Check your account for impact [#impact]

If your New Relic account was sending OTLP cumulative sum metrics to New Relic before March 14, 2023, then you'll be impacted by the EoL on June 13, 2023. 

To check if your account is impacted, run the following NRQL query:

```
FROM NrIntegrationError SELECT count(*) 
WHERE newRelicFeature = 'cumulativeSumAsGaugeEoL' 
SINCE 24 hours ago
```

The query will return results if you've reported metrics impacted by this EoL in the last 24 hours. 

To investigate further, you can view the event message to see which metrics are affected:

```
FROM NrIntegrationError SELECT uniques(metricName)
WHERE newRelicFeature = 'cumulativeSumAsGaugeEoL' 
LIMIT MAX SINCE 24 hours ago
```

Any monitoring or alerting involving these metrics will need to be reviewed and updated prior to the EoL date. The next section contains suggested actions for impacted metrics. 

## What to do if you're impacted [#what-to-do]

On June 13, the reporting of OTLP monotonic cumulative sum metrics will switch from using the `gauge` to `cumulativeCount`. If you're using those metrics, you'll want to prepare for that. For example, you may want to create duplicate alert conditions with the new metric type so that, when the switch happens, you won't have a disruption (and we explain how to do that below).

Our [OpenTelemetry best practices](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-best-practices-metrics#query) outline the differences in querying between a `gauge` and a `cumulativeCount` metric type. Namely, you'll be able to target either the delta value (by default) or the cumulative value by selecting the cumulative field.

Let's take an example query. Up until the EoL, a query like: 

```
FROM Metric SELECT latest(<metricName>)
```

would be evaluating only `gauge` metrics. Once the EoL happens, it would be evaluating both `gauge` and `cumulativeCount` metrics. Depending on the alert, that could cause false results.

Below we focus on updating [alert conditions](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-nrql-alert-conditions), because alerts are generally more important than charts. For your custom charts, you can either:

* Take the same general approach we describe for alerts (create a new chart with an updated query and erase the old chart after the EoL), OR
* Wait until after the EoL and update the charts

## Suggested action: Create new versions of alerts [#alerts]

Here are some examples of queries that might be used in alert condition. We'll give you the original query, then a `gauge` version of the query, and a `cumulativeCount` version of the query. You should replace your existing alert with the `gauge` version of the query, and create a duplicate alert condition that uses the `cumulativeCount` version. That way, when we transition your account to `cumulativeCount` on June 16, that alert condition will be available when the old query no longer works. 

### Cumulative queries [#cumulative-queries]

Original query: 
```
FROM Metric SELECT latest(<metricName>)
```

Gauge version of the query:
``` 
FROM Metric SELECT latest(<metricName>) 
WHERE <metricName>[type] = 'gauge'
```

Cumulative count version of the query: 
```
FROM Metric SELECT latest(<metricName>[cumulative]) 
WHERE <metricName>[type] = 'cumulativeCount'
```

### Rate of change queries [#rate-of-change-queries]

Original query: 

```
FROM Metric SELECT derivative(<metricName>, 1 minute)
```

Gauge version of query:
``` 
FROM Metric SELECT derivative(<metricName>, 1 minute) 
WHERE <metricName>[type] = 'gauge'
```

Cumulative count version of query:

```
FROM Metric SELECT rate(sum(<metricName>[cumulative]), 1 minute) 
WHERE <metricName>[type] = 'cumulativeCount'
```

## Suggested action: preview cumulativeCount before the EoL [#preview]

Affected accounts will continue to have their cumulative sums stored as `gauge` types until the EoL. However, optionally, you can try out `cumulativeCount` before the EoL to validate your queries and alerts are behaving as expected. To test `cumuativeCount` types early, add the following attribute to OTLP data you send to New Relic:

```
newrelic_metric_type=cumulativeCount
```

<Callout variant="important">
When you start sending `newrelic_metric_type=cumulativeCount` on your data, any cumulative monotonic sums we receive will be translated into `cumulativeCount` types. This means any existing queries or alerts set up to target a `gauge` type will no longer be valid. Keep this in mind when testing the `cumulativeCount` experience. To return to the `gauge` type, simply stop setting the `newrelic_metric_type` attribute. 
</Callout>

### Instrumentation library [#instrumentation-library]

If you're using an OTLP instrumentation library within your code base, you should reference the [appropriate language SDK](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/opentelemetry-set-up-your-app/#instrument) for your application. Any method of adding the attribute `newrelic_metric_type=cumulativeCount` to individual metric data points or to the resource attribute level should be sufficient. 

Here's an example of adding the attribute directly to the reporting metric in the Java SDK:

```
final var meter = openTelemetry.meterBuilder("manual-instrumentation-scope")
                .setInstrumentationVersion("1.0.0")
                .build();
final LongCounter counter = meter.counterBuilder("myCumulativeCounter")
                .build();
counter.add(1, Attributes.of(stringKey("newrelic_metric_type"), "cumulativeCount"));
```

### Collector [#collector]

If the source of your OTLP monitoring is coming from the OTLP collector, you can use the OpenTelemetry [attributes processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/processor/attributesprocessor/README.md) to add the attribute before it's sent to your exporters. For example, the following snippet will insert the `newrelic_metric_type=cumulativeCount` attribute:

```
…
attributes:
  actions:
    - key: newrelic_metric_type
      action: insert
      value: cumulativeCount
…
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      …
      processors: [...,attributes,...]
      …
```

### Checking results [#checking-results]

After setting `newrelic_metric_type=cumulativeCount` in your metric data, you can check that we're receiving it correctly with this query:

```
FROM Metric SELECT count(*) WHERE %[type] = 'cumulativeCount' TIMESERIES
```
