src/content/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/opentelemetry-get-started-intro.mdx, before:

---
title: 'How to get started with OpenTelemetry'
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Open source telemetry integrations
  - OpenTelemetry
metaDescription: Here are your options to set up your own app or to set up a demo app with OpenTelemetry and New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started-opentelemetry-new-relic
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/set-opentelemetry-new-relic
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start-guide
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-architecture-recipes/
  - /docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start
  - /docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-setup
---

You have a variety of options to get started with OpenTelemetry and New Relic. You can jump right into the monitoring of your own apps, hosts, or Kubernetes clusters, or you can set up some demo apps to experiment with OpenTelemetry and New Relic. We have range of instructions that'll help you harness the power of OpenTelemetry to gather data and send it to New Relic.

## Set up your own app or service [#own-app]

If you're familiar with OpenTelemetry and are ready to work with your own code, check out [Set up your own app or service with OpenTelemetry](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/opentelemetry-set-up-your-app). These steps will help you gather telemetry and export it to New Relic.

## Monitor a host [#otel-infra]

You can monitor your hosts by using the OpenTelemetry collector. See [Collector for host monitoring](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/collector/opentelemetry-collector-infra-hosts).

## Monitor Kubernetes [#otel-kubernetes]

Monitor your Kubernetes clusters with the OpenTelemetry collector. See the instructions in [Link OpenTelemetry-instrumented applications to Kubernetes](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/advanced-configuration/link-otel-applications-kubernetes/).

## Try out a demo Java app [#demo-app-java]

Instead of jumping right into the setup for your own app, you can spin up our demo Java app with OpenTelemetry and New Relic.

We have three [Java tutorials](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/opentelemetry-tutorial-java) to help you get acquainted with OpenTelemetry:

* Inspect a pre-instrumented app you can quickly spin up to send data into New Relic.
* Use the OpenTelemetry Java agent to automatically instrument a demo app.
* Manually instrument a demo app and use an extension to configure the SDK.

## Learn OpenTelemetry concepts in the masterclass [#otel-masterclass]

If you'd like to learn more about the concepts behind OpenTelemetry and apply them with a small demo app, take a look at our [masterclass](https://developer.newrelic.com/opentelemetry-masterclass). You can try our hands-on tutorials for .NET or Python.

Commit message:

fix(otel best practice): adding refs, nav

src/content/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/opentelemetry-get-started-intro.mdx, after:

---
title: 'How to get started with OpenTelemetry'
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Open source telemetry integrations
  - OpenTelemetry
metaDescription: Here are your options to set up your own app or to set up a demo app with OpenTelemetry and New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started-opentelemetry-new-relic
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/set-opentelemetry-new-relic
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start-guide
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-architecture-recipes/
  - /docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start
  - /docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-setup
---

You have a variety of options to get started with OpenTelemetry and New Relic. You can jump right into the monitoring of your own apps, hosts, or Kubernetes clusters, or you can set up some demo apps to experiment with OpenTelemetry and New Relic. We have range of instructions that'll help you harness the power of OpenTelemetry to gather data and send it to New Relic.

## Check out our guide to getting started [#guide]

First, we recommend checking out our [Best practice guide for setting up OpenTelemetry and New Relic](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-best-practice-setup). 

For docs about specific parts of the implementation process, keep reading.

## Set up your own app or service [#own-app]

If you're familiar with OpenTelemetry and are ready to work with your own code, check out [Set up your own app or service with OpenTelemetry](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/opentelemetry-set-up-your-app). These steps will help you gather telemetry and export it to New Relic.

## Monitor a host [#otel-infra]

You can monitor your hosts by using the OpenTelemetry collector. See [Collector for host monitoring](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/collector/opentelemetry-collector-infra-hosts).

## Monitor Kubernetes [#otel-kubernetes]

Monitor your Kubernetes clusters with the OpenTelemetry collector. See the instructions in [Link OpenTelemetry-instrumented applications to Kubernetes](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/advanced-configuration/link-otel-applications-kubernetes/).

## Try out a demo Java app [#demo-app-java]

Instead of jumping right into the setup for your own app, you can spin up our demo Java app with OpenTelemetry and New Relic.

We have three [Java tutorials](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started/opentelemetry-tutorial-java) to help you get acquainted with OpenTelemetry:

* Inspect a pre-instrumented app you can quickly spin up to send data into New Relic.
* Use the OpenTelemetry Java agent to automatically instrument a demo app.
* Manually instrument a demo app and use an extension to configure the SDK.

## Learn OpenTelemetry concepts in the masterclass [#otel-masterclass]

If you'd like to learn more about the concepts behind OpenTelemetry and apply them with a small demo app, take a look at our [masterclass](https://developer.newrelic.com/opentelemetry-masterclass). You can try our hands-on tutorials for .NET or Python.
