src/content/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring.mdx, before:

---
title: Set up network flow data monitoring
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Network monitoring
  - Installation
  - Setup
metaDescription: Set up network flow data monitoring.
---

import networkNetworkFlowsGuidedInstall from 'images/network_screenshot-full_network-flows-guided-install.png'

Set up your network devices so they send network data to New Relic.

<ButtonLink
  data-tessen="stitchedPathLinkClick"
  role="button"
  to="https://one.newrelic.com/nr1-core?state=3d97229a-7feb-60e8-2b17-94971922fde3"
  variant="primary"
>
  Add network flow data
</ButtonLink>

## Prerequisites and supported types of network flow data [#prerequisites]

### New Relic prerequisites [#prerequisites-NR]

* A New Relic account. Don't have one? [Sign up for free!](https://newrelic.com/signup) No credit card required.
* A New Relic [account ID](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-setup/account-id).
* A New Relic <LicenseKey/>.

### Linux host prerequisites [#prerequisites-linux-host]

If you're using linux:

* SSH access to the host
* Access to install/remove applications and services
* Network access as defined in the [network prerequisites](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring#prerequisites-network)

### Docker prerequisites [#prerequisites-docker]

If you're using docker:

* [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install) installed in a Linux host
* Ability to launch new containers via command line

### Network flow data devices prerequisites [#prerequisites-network-flow-devices]

* Configured network devices to send flow data to the host running the **ktranslate** docker container. Here's how to configure network flow data collection in some devices:
  * NetFlow data
    * [Cisco - IOS](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/ios/netflow/configuration/guide/12_2sr/nf_12_2sr_book/cfg_nflow_data_expt.html#wp1087069)
    * [Cisco - Meraki](https://documentation.meraki.com/MX/Monitoring_and_Reporting/NetFlow_Overview)
    * [Cisco - NX-OS](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/switches/datacenter/nexus9000/sw/7-x/system_management/configuration/guide/b_Cisco_Nexus_9000_Series_NX-OS_System_Management_Configuration_Guide_7x/b_Cisco_Nexus_9000_Series_NX-OS_System_Management_Configuration_Guide_7x_chapter_011100.html#task_52D8A0952B06404197D2536B6E33EE80)
    * [Fortinet Fortigate](https://kb.fortinet.com/kb/documentLink.do?externalID=FD36460)
    * [Palo Alto - PAN-OS](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/8-1/pan-os-admin/monitoring/netflow-monitoring/configure-netflow-exports)
  * sFlow data
    * [F5 - BIG-IP](https://techdocs.f5.com/en-us/bip-upd-16-0-0-u2/external-monitoring-of-big-ip-systems-implementations/monitoring-big-ip-system-traffic-with-sflow.html#GUID-294498AA-BBF7-4E5A-8AD8-1F778E294EE7)
  * jFlow data
    * [Juniper - Junos](https://www.juniper.net/documentation/us/en/software/junos/flow-monitoring/flow-monitoring.pdf)

### Network security prerequisites [#prerequisites-network-security]

Check the [network security prerequisites for network flow](/install/npm).

### Supported types of network flow data  [#supported-network-flow-data-types]

Network flow monitoring supports the four primary types of network flow data and their derivatives. When running the **ktranslate** container, you will specify which major type you want to monitor using the `-nf.source` option.

<Callout variant="important">
  The **ktranslate** container only supports monitoring one type of network flow data type at a time. If you want to monitor several types, each will require a container.

  IPFIX and NetFlow v9 can be sent to the same container, but we recommend running a separate container as a best practice.
</Callout>

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: '300px' }}>
        Network flow data type
      </th>

      <th>
        `-nf.source` value
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        IPFIX
      </td>

      <td>
        `ipfix`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        NetFlow v5
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        NetFlow v9
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow9`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        sFlow
      </td>

      <td>
        `sflow`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        AppFlow
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Argus
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        cflowd
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        J-Flow
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        NetStream
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        RFlow
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Cisco NSEL
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow9`
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Cisco ASA
      </td>
      <td>
        `asa`
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Cisco NBAR
      </td>
      <td>
        `nbar`
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Palo Alto Networks
      </td>
      <td>
        `pan`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Scaling network flow collection [#scaling-network-flow-collection]

When planning your strategy for collecting network flows at scale, New Relic recommends 1 CPU per 2000 flows-per-second (120,000 flows-per-minute). Deciding whether to run more small containers to distribute load or fewer large containers to consolidate management is a matter of personal preference.

## Set up network flow data monitoring in New Relic [#setup-network-flow-monitoring]

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Add more data**.
2. Scroll down until you see **Network** and click **Network Flows**.
3. Follow the steps outlined in the guided installation process. You can use docker or linux.

   <img title="Network Flows guided setup" alt="Network Flows guided setup" src={networkNetworkFlowsGuidedInstall}/>

   <figcaption>
   **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Add more data > Network > Network Flows** to set up network flow data monitoring.
   </figcaption>
   
4. [Visualize your network performance data in New Relic](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/monitoring-network-data/visualize-network-data).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="manual-setup"
    title="Manual setup"
  >
    If you prefer to do the setup manually, proceed with the following steps.

    1. In your local machine, from a Linux host with Docker installed, download the **ktranslate** image by running one of the following:
       * [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/)
         ```shell
         docker pull kentik/ktranslate:v2
         ```
       * [Quay.io](https://quay.io/)
         ```shell
         docker pull quay.io/kentik/ktranslate:v2
         ```

    2. Copy the `snmp-base.yaml` file to the local `$HOME` directory of your Docker user, and discard the container by running the following:
       ```shell
       cd .
       id=$(docker create kentik/ktranslate:v2)
       docker cp $id:/etc/ktranslate/snmp-base.yaml .
       docker rm -v $id
       ```

    3. In the `snmp-base.yaml` file, add your network flow devices inside the `devices` key with the following structure:

       ```yaml
       devices:
         flowDevice:
           device_name: edge-router
           device_ip: 10.10.1.254
           flow_only: true
           # Optional user tags
           user_tags:
             owning_team: net_eng
             environment: production
       ```

       <Callout variant="tip">
         If you're already monitoring SNMP data devices that send network flow data,
         you don't need to add them in your `snmp-base.yaml` file a second time.
       </Callout>

    4. Run `ktranslate` to listen for network flows by running:

       ```shell
       docker run -d --name ktranslate-sflow --restart unless-stopped --net=host \
       -v `pwd`/snmp-base.yaml:/snmp-base.yaml \
       -e NEW_RELIC_API_KEY=$YOUR_NR_LICENSE_KEY \
       kentik/ktranslate:v2 \
         -snmp /snmp-base.yaml \
         -nr_account_id=$YOUR_NR_ACCOUNT_ID \
         ## If your account is located in Europe, add the following flag:
         ## -nr_region=EU \
         ## If you want to use FedRAMP, add the following flag to use the FedRAMP authorized endpoints:
         ## -nr_region=GOV \
         -metrics=jchf \
         -tee_logs=true \
         -flow_only=true \
         -nf.source=sflow \
         -service_name=sflow \
         nr1.flow
       ```

       <Callout variant="tip">
         This command assumes collection of `sflow` data. If you are collecting other
         flow types, you should change the suffix in the `--name` flag for the
         container and update the `-nf.source` and `-service_name` flags as necessary.
       </Callout>

    5. To get insights into system messages from your devices, [setup network syslog collection](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-syslog-monitoring).

    6. [Visualize your network performance data in New Relic](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/monitoring-network-data/visualize-network-data).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

<InstallFeedback />

## Find and use your metrics [#find-your-metrics]

All network flow logs exported from the `ktranslate` container use the `KFlow` namespace, via the [New Relic Event API](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-apis/introduction-event-api). Currently, these are the default fields populated from this integration:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: '150px' }}>
        Attribute
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: '150px' }}>
        Type
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `application`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The class of program generating the traffic in this flow record. This is derived from the lowest numeric value from `l4_dst_port` and `l4_src_port`. Common examples include `http`, `ssh`, and `ftp`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `device_name`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The display name of the sampling device for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dst_addr`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The target IP address for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dst_as`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The target [Autonomous System Number](https://www.iana.org/assignments/as-numbers/as-numbers.xhtml) for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dst_as_name`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The target [Autonomous System Name](https://www.iana.org/assignments/as-numbers/as-numbers.xhtml) for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dst_endpoint`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The target `IP:Port` tuple for this flow record. This is a combination of `dst_addr` and `l4_dst_port`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dst_geo`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The target country for this flow record, if known.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `in_bytes`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The number of bytes transferred for ingress flow records.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `in_pkts`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The number of packets transferred for ingress flow records.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `input_port`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        `If_Index` value for the interface at the source of this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `l4_dst_port`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The target port for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `l4_src_port`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The source port for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `output_port`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        `If_Index` value for the interface at the destination of this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `protocol`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The display name of the protocol used in this flow record, derived from the [numeric IANA protocol number](https://www.iana.org/assignments/protocol-numbers/protocol-numbers.xhtml).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `provider`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        This attribute is used to uniquely identify various sources of data from `ktranslate`. Network flow logs will always have the value of `kentik-flow-device`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `sample_rate`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        Sampling rate applied by either the sampling device configuration, or the `sample_rate` argument in `ktranslate`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `src_addr`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The source IP address for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `src_as`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The source [Autonomous System Number](https://www.iana.org/assignments/as-numbers/as-numbers.xhtml) for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `src_as_name`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The source [Autonomous System Name](https://www.iana.org/assignments/as-numbers/as-numbers.xhtml) for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `src_endpoint`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The source `IP:Port` tuple for this flow record. It's a combination of `src_addr` and `l4_src_port`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `src_geo`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The source country for this flow record, if known.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `tcp_flags`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        TCP flags in this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `timestamp`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The time, in Unix seconds, when this flow record was received by the New Relic Event API.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

feat(NPM): clarify where to put license key and account ID

src/content/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring.mdx, after:

---
title: Set up network flow data monitoring
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Network monitoring
  - Installation
  - Setup
metaDescription: Set up network flow data monitoring.
---

import networkNetworkFlowsGuidedInstall from 'images/network_screenshot-full_network-flows-guided-install.png'

Set up your network devices so they send network data to New Relic.

<ButtonLink
  data-tessen="stitchedPathLinkClick"
  role="button"
  to="https://one.newrelic.com/nr1-core?state=3d97229a-7feb-60e8-2b17-94971922fde3"
  variant="primary"
>
  Add network flow data
</ButtonLink>

## Prerequisites and supported types of network flow data [#prerequisites]

### New Relic prerequisites [#prerequisites-NR]

* A New Relic account. Don't have one? [Sign up for free!](https://newrelic.com/signup) No credit card required.
* A New Relic [account ID](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-setup/account-id).
* A New Relic <LicenseKey/>.

### Linux host prerequisites [#prerequisites-linux-host]

If you're using linux:

* SSH access to the host
* Access to install/remove applications and services
* Network access as defined in the [network prerequisites](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring#prerequisites-network)

### Docker prerequisites [#prerequisites-docker]

If you're using docker:

* [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install) installed in a Linux host
* Ability to launch new containers via command line

### Network flow data devices prerequisites [#prerequisites-network-flow-devices]

* Configured network devices to send flow data to the host running the **ktranslate** docker container. Here's how to configure network flow data collection in some devices:
  * NetFlow data
    * [Cisco - IOS](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/ios/netflow/configuration/guide/12_2sr/nf_12_2sr_book/cfg_nflow_data_expt.html#wp1087069)
    * [Cisco - Meraki](https://documentation.meraki.com/MX/Monitoring_and_Reporting/NetFlow_Overview)
    * [Cisco - NX-OS](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/switches/datacenter/nexus9000/sw/7-x/system_management/configuration/guide/b_Cisco_Nexus_9000_Series_NX-OS_System_Management_Configuration_Guide_7x/b_Cisco_Nexus_9000_Series_NX-OS_System_Management_Configuration_Guide_7x_chapter_011100.html#task_52D8A0952B06404197D2536B6E33EE80)
    * [Fortinet Fortigate](https://kb.fortinet.com/kb/documentLink.do?externalID=FD36460)
    * [Palo Alto - PAN-OS](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/8-1/pan-os-admin/monitoring/netflow-monitoring/configure-netflow-exports)
  * sFlow data
    * [F5 - BIG-IP](https://techdocs.f5.com/en-us/bip-upd-16-0-0-u2/external-monitoring-of-big-ip-systems-implementations/monitoring-big-ip-system-traffic-with-sflow.html#GUID-294498AA-BBF7-4E5A-8AD8-1F778E294EE7)
  * jFlow data
    * [Juniper - Junos](https://www.juniper.net/documentation/us/en/software/junos/flow-monitoring/flow-monitoring.pdf)

### Network security prerequisites [#prerequisites-network-security]

Check the [network security prerequisites for network flow](/install/npm).

### Supported types of network flow data  [#supported-network-flow-data-types]

Network flow monitoring supports the four primary types of network flow data and their derivatives. When running the **ktranslate** container, you will specify which major type you want to monitor using the `-nf.source` option.

<Callout variant="important">
  The **ktranslate** container only supports monitoring one type of network flow data type at a time. If you want to monitor several types, each will require a container.

  IPFIX and NetFlow v9 can be sent to the same container, but we recommend running a separate container as a best practice.
</Callout>

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: '300px' }}>
        Network flow data type
      </th>

      <th>
        `-nf.source` value
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        IPFIX
      </td>

      <td>
        `ipfix`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        NetFlow v5
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        NetFlow v9
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow9`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        sFlow
      </td>

      <td>
        `sflow`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        AppFlow
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Argus
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        cflowd
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        J-Flow
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        NetStream
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        RFlow
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow5`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Cisco NSEL
      </td>

      <td>
        `netflow9`
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Cisco ASA
      </td>
      <td>
        `asa`
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Cisco NBAR
      </td>
      <td>
        `nbar`
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Palo Alto Networks
      </td>
      <td>
        `pan`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Scaling network flow collection [#scaling-network-flow-collection]

When planning your strategy for collecting network flows at scale, New Relic recommends 1 CPU per 2000 flows-per-second (120,000 flows-per-minute). Deciding whether to run more small containers to distribute load or fewer large containers to consolidate management is a matter of personal preference.

## Set up network flow data monitoring in New Relic [#setup-network-flow-monitoring]

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Add more data**.
2. Scroll down until you see **Network** and click **Network Flows**.
3. Follow the steps outlined in the guided installation process. You can use docker or linux.

   <img title="Network Flows guided setup" alt="Network Flows guided setup" src={networkNetworkFlowsGuidedInstall}/>

   <figcaption>
   **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Add more data > Network > Network Flows** to set up network flow data monitoring.
   </figcaption>
   
4. [Visualize your network performance data in New Relic](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/monitoring-network-data/visualize-network-data).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="manual-setup"
    title="Manual setup"
  >
    If you prefer to do the setup manually, proceed with the following steps.

    1. In your local machine, from a Linux host with Docker installed, download the **ktranslate** image by running one of the following:
       * [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/)
         ```shell
         docker pull kentik/ktranslate:v2
         ```
       * [Quay.io](https://quay.io/)
         ```shell
         docker pull quay.io/kentik/ktranslate:v2
         ```

    2. Copy the `snmp-base.yaml` file to the local `$HOME` directory of your Docker user, and discard the container by running the following:
       ```shell
       cd .
       id=$(docker create kentik/ktranslate:v2)
       docker cp $id:/etc/ktranslate/snmp-base.yaml .
       docker rm -v $id
       ```

    3. In the `snmp-base.yaml` file, add your network flow devices inside the `devices` key with the following structure:

       ```yaml
       devices:
         flowDevice:
           device_name: edge-router
           device_ip: 10.10.1.254
           flow_only: true
           # Optional user tags
           user_tags:
             owning_team: net_eng
             environment: production
       ```

       <Callout variant="tip">
         If you're already monitoring SNMP data devices that send network flow data,
         you don't need to add them in your `snmp-base.yaml` file a second time.
       </Callout>

    4. Run `ktranslate` to listen for network flows. This is where you insert your API key and account ID. For example:

       ```shell
       docker run -d --name ktranslate-sflow --restart unless-stopped --net=host \
       -v `pwd`/snmp-base.yaml:/snmp-base.yaml \
       -e NEW_RELIC_API_KEY=$YOUR_NR_LICENSE_KEY \
       kentik/ktranslate:v2 \
         -snmp /snmp-base.yaml \
         -nr_account_id=$YOUR_NR_ACCOUNT_ID \
         ## If your account is located in Europe, add the following flag:
         ## -nr_region=EU \
         ## If you want to use FedRAMP, add the following flag to use the FedRAMP authorized endpoints:
         ## -nr_region=GOV \
         -metrics=jchf \
         -tee_logs=true \
         -flow_only=true \
         -nf.source=sflow \
         -service_name=sflow \
         nr1.flow
       ```

       <Callout variant="tip">
         This command assumes collection of `sflow` data. If you are collecting other
         flow types, you should change the suffix in the `--name` flag for the
         container and update the `-nf.source` and `-service_name` flags as necessary.
       </Callout>

    5. To get insights into system messages from your devices, [setup network syslog collection](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-syslog-monitoring).

    6. [Visualize your network performance data in New Relic](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/monitoring-network-data/visualize-network-data).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

<InstallFeedback />

## Find and use your metrics [#find-your-metrics]

All network flow logs exported from the `ktranslate` container use the `KFlow` namespace, via the [New Relic Event API](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-apis/introduction-event-api). Currently, these are the default fields populated from this integration:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: '150px' }}>
        Attribute
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: '150px' }}>
        Type
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `application`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The class of program generating the traffic in this flow record. This is derived from the lowest numeric value from `l4_dst_port` and `l4_src_port`. Common examples include `http`, `ssh`, and `ftp`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `device_name`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The display name of the sampling device for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dst_addr`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The target IP address for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dst_as`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The target [Autonomous System Number](https://www.iana.org/assignments/as-numbers/as-numbers.xhtml) for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dst_as_name`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The target [Autonomous System Name](https://www.iana.org/assignments/as-numbers/as-numbers.xhtml) for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dst_endpoint`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The target `IP:Port` tuple for this flow record. This is a combination of `dst_addr` and `l4_dst_port`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dst_geo`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The target country for this flow record, if known.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `in_bytes`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The number of bytes transferred for ingress flow records.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `in_pkts`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The number of packets transferred for ingress flow records.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `input_port`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        `If_Index` value for the interface at the source of this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `l4_dst_port`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The target port for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `l4_src_port`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The source port for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `output_port`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        `If_Index` value for the interface at the destination of this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `protocol`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The display name of the protocol used in this flow record, derived from the [numeric IANA protocol number](https://www.iana.org/assignments/protocol-numbers/protocol-numbers.xhtml).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `provider`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        This attribute is used to uniquely identify various sources of data from `ktranslate`. Network flow logs will always have the value of `kentik-flow-device`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `sample_rate`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        Sampling rate applied by either the sampling device configuration, or the `sample_rate` argument in `ktranslate`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `src_addr`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The source IP address for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `src_as`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The source [Autonomous System Number](https://www.iana.org/assignments/as-numbers/as-numbers.xhtml) for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `src_as_name`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The source [Autonomous System Name](https://www.iana.org/assignments/as-numbers/as-numbers.xhtml) for this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `src_endpoint`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The source `IP:Port` tuple for this flow record. It's a combination of `src_addr` and `l4_src_port`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `src_geo`
      </td>

      <td>
        String
      </td>

      <td>
        The source country for this flow record, if known.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `tcp_flags`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        TCP flags in this flow record.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `timestamp`
      </td>

      <td>
        Numeric
      </td>

      <td>
        The time, in Unix seconds, when this flow record was received by the New Relic Event API.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
