src/content/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-ruby.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction to New Relic for Ruby
tags:
  - Agents
  - Ruby agent
  - Getting started
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'For information about New Relic''s Ruby agent (compatibility requirements, installation, configuration, troubleshooting), start here.'
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-ruby
  - /docs/general/how-do-i-get-rpm-working-with-lighttpd-and-or-fastcgi
  - /docs/general/beta-installation
  - /docs/ruby/no-routing-errors-under-rails-3
  - /docs/ruby/new-relic-for-ruby
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/new-relic-ruby
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent
  - /docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent
---

The New Relic Ruby agent monitors your applications to help you [identify and solve performance issues](#monitor-performance). You can also extend the agent's performance monitoring to [collect and analyze business data](#business-data) to help you improve the customer experience and make data-driven business decisions.

## Compatibility and requirements [#compat]

The Ruby agent supports many of the most common [Ruby frameworks and platforms](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/supported-frameworks). You can also use the Ruby agent in a [Google App Engine (GAE) flexible environment](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/install-new-relic-ruby-agent-gae-flexible-environment). Before you install the Ruby agent, ensure your system meets the [system requirements](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/ruby-agent-requirements-supported-frameworks/).

## Monitor app performance [#monitor-performance]

**View the big picture of your app**

* Monitor your app's [Apdex (user satisfaction)](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/apdex/apdex-measuring-user-satisfaction).
* Get a [high-level summary of your app](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page).
* Create [architectural maps](/docs/data-analysis/user-interface-functions/view-your-data/service-maps-visualize-monitor-apps-entire-architecture) of your app.
* Enable [distributed tracing](/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/distributed-tracing-ruby-agent) to understand activity in an environment that relies on many services.
* Install [New Relic Infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure) and view detailed host data for your app.

**Find errors and problems quickly**

* Track [key transactions.](/docs/apm/transactions/key-transactions/key-transactions-tracking-important-transactions-or-events)
* Create [customized dashboards](/docs/insights/use-insights-ui/advanced-ui-tasks/add-edit-copy-insights-dashboards) for important metrics.
* [Alert](/docs/alerts/alert-policies/understanding-alert-policies/alerting-new-relic) your team when errors or problems occur before they affect your users.
* Track performance [after a deployment](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/features/recording-deployments-ruby-agent).

**Drill down into performance details**

* Examine code-level [transaction traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/transaction-traces)
* Examine [database query traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/sql-statements).
* Examine [error traces](/docs/apm/applications-menu/events/viewing-apm-errors-error-traces).
* Monitor [Ruby background processes and daemons](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/background-jobs/monitoring-ruby-background-processes-daemons).

**View logs for your APM and infrastructure data**

Bring your logs and application's data together to make troubleshooting easier and faster. No need to switch to another UI page.

* With [logs in context](/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-ruby/), you can see log messages related to your errors and traces directly in your app's UI.
* You can also see logs in context of your [infrastructure data](/docs/logs/forward-logs/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent/), such as Kubernetes clusters.

**Analyze business data**

Use the Ruby agent to organize, query, and visualize your data to answer key questions about application performance and customer experience.

* Use default transaction attributes or [add your own](/docs/using-new-relic/data/customize-data/collect-custom-attributes).
* Query your data [using NRQL](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language).
* Send [your own event data](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/introduction-apm).
* Create and share customizable, interactive [dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-new-relic-one-dashboards).

## Install the agent [#install]

After creating a [New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup), use our launcher or see the installation instructions.

<ButtonGroup>
  <ButtonLink
    role="button"
    to="/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/install-new-relic-ruby-agent"
    variant="link"
  >
    Install docs for gem (recommended)
  </ButtonLink>

  <ButtonLink
    role="button"
    to="/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/ruby-agent-installation-rails-plugin"
    variant="link"
  >
    Install docs for rails plugin
  </ButtonLink>

  <ButtonLink
    role="button"
    to="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJ0dWNzb24ucGxnLWluc3RydW1lbnQtZXZlcnl0aGluZyJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJzZXR1cC1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1ydWJ5LWludGVncmF0aW9uIiwiYWNjb3VudElkIjoyNjQwNDA5fQ==&platform[accountId]=1"
    variant="primary"
  >
    Add Ruby data
  </ButtonLink>
</ButtonGroup>

## Extend agent instrumentation [#extend]

After installing the agent, go further and extend the agent's instrumentation:

* [Page load timing](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/features/page-load-timing-ruby): [Automatically inject the browser monitoring agent](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/getting-started/new-relic-browser) to get visibility into end-user activity.
* [Custom instrumentation](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/features/ruby-custom-instrumentation): Instrument transactions not captured as part of our framework instrumentation.
* [Agent API](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/customization/ruby-agent-api-guide): Use the agent API to fully customize the agent's behavior. For example, you can collect custom metrics, flag an error, or ignore a particular transaction entirely.
* [Custom metrics](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/features/ruby-custom-metrics): Record additional metrics as part of a transaction to gain more insights into your app's performance and business data.
* [Agent attributes](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/attributes/ruby-agent-attributes): Customize the [attributes](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/agent-metrics/agent-attributes) attached to transactions. Customizing attributes allows you to avoid sending sensitive attributes, or to collect additional attributes for deeper visibility into your transactions.

## Troubleshooting [#tshoot]

If you're having problems, see the Ruby agent troubleshooting docs. Common issues include:

* [No data appears (Ruby)](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/troubleshooting/no-data-appears-ruby)
* [Gems incompatible with the Ruby agent](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/troubleshooting/incompatible-gems)
* [Sending handled errors to New Relic](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/troubleshooting/sending-new-relic-handled-errors)
* [Controlling when the Ruby agent starts](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/troubleshooting/controlling-when-ruby-agent-starts)

## Check the source code [#source-code]

The Ruby agent is open source software. That means you can [browse its source code](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-ruby-agent) and send improvements, or create your own fork and build it. For more information, see the [README](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-ruby-agent/blob/main/README.md).

Commit message:

feat(tutorial): add inbound doc links to app is slow

src/content/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-ruby.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction to New Relic for Ruby
tags:
  - Agents
  - Ruby agent
  - Getting started
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'For information about New Relic''s Ruby agent (compatibility requirements, installation, configuration, troubleshooting), start here.'
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-ruby
  - /docs/general/how-do-i-get-rpm-working-with-lighttpd-and-or-fastcgi
  - /docs/general/beta-installation
  - /docs/ruby/no-routing-errors-under-rails-3
  - /docs/ruby/new-relic-for-ruby
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/new-relic-ruby
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent
  - /docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent
---

The New Relic Ruby agent monitors your applications to help you [identify and solve performance issues](#monitor-performance). You can also extend the agent's performance monitoring to [collect and analyze business data](#business-data) to help you improve the customer experience and make data-driven business decisions.

Use the New Relic Ruby agent to solve your app's performance issues with our [My app is slow tutorial](/docs/journey-app-slow/root-causes/). 

## Compatibility and requirements [#compat]

The Ruby agent supports many of the most common [Ruby frameworks and platforms](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/supported-frameworks). You can also use the Ruby agent in a [Google App Engine (GAE) flexible environment](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/install-new-relic-ruby-agent-gae-flexible-environment). Before you install the Ruby agent, ensure your system meets the [system requirements](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/ruby-agent-requirements-supported-frameworks/).

## Monitor app performance [#monitor-performance]

**View the big picture of your app**

* Monitor your app's [Apdex (user satisfaction)](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/apdex/apdex-measuring-user-satisfaction).
* Get a [high-level summary of your app](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page).
* Create [architectural maps](/docs/data-analysis/user-interface-functions/view-your-data/service-maps-visualize-monitor-apps-entire-architecture) of your app.
* Enable [distributed tracing](/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/distributed-tracing-ruby-agent) to understand activity in an environment that relies on many services.
* Install [New Relic Infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure) and view detailed host data for your app.

**Find errors and problems quickly**

* Track [key transactions.](/docs/apm/transactions/key-transactions/key-transactions-tracking-important-transactions-or-events)
* Create [customized dashboards](/docs/insights/use-insights-ui/advanced-ui-tasks/add-edit-copy-insights-dashboards) for important metrics.
* [Alert](/docs/alerts/alert-policies/understanding-alert-policies/alerting-new-relic) your team when errors or problems occur before they affect your users.
* Track performance [after a deployment](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/features/recording-deployments-ruby-agent).

**Drill down into performance details**

* Examine code-level [transaction traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/transaction-traces)
* Examine [database query traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/sql-statements).
* Examine [error traces](/docs/apm/applications-menu/events/viewing-apm-errors-error-traces).
* Monitor [Ruby background processes and daemons](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/background-jobs/monitoring-ruby-background-processes-daemons).

**View logs for your APM and infrastructure data**

Bring your logs and application's data together to make troubleshooting easier and faster. No need to switch to another UI page.

* With [logs in context](/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-ruby/), you can see log messages related to your errors and traces directly in your app's UI.
* You can also see logs in context of your [infrastructure data](/docs/logs/forward-logs/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent/), such as Kubernetes clusters.

**Analyze business data**

Use the Ruby agent to organize, query, and visualize your data to answer key questions about application performance and customer experience.

* Use default transaction attributes or [add your own](/docs/using-new-relic/data/customize-data/collect-custom-attributes).
* Query your data [using NRQL](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language).
* Send [your own event data](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/introduction-apm).
* Create and share customizable, interactive [dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-new-relic-one-dashboards).

## Install the agent [#install]

After creating a [New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup), use our launcher or see the installation instructions.

<ButtonGroup>
  <ButtonLink
    role="button"
    to="/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/install-new-relic-ruby-agent"
    variant="link"
  >
    Install docs for gem (recommended)
  </ButtonLink>

  <ButtonLink
    role="button"
    to="/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/ruby-agent-installation-rails-plugin"
    variant="link"
  >
    Install docs for rails plugin
  </ButtonLink>

  <ButtonLink
    role="button"
    to="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJ0dWNzb24ucGxnLWluc3RydW1lbnQtZXZlcnl0aGluZyJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJzZXR1cC1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1ydWJ5LWludGVncmF0aW9uIiwiYWNjb3VudElkIjoyNjQwNDA5fQ==&platform[accountId]=1"
    variant="primary"
  >
    Add Ruby data
  </ButtonLink>
</ButtonGroup>

## Extend agent instrumentation [#extend]

After installing the agent, go further and extend the agent's instrumentation:

* [Page load timing](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/features/page-load-timing-ruby): [Automatically inject the browser monitoring agent](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/getting-started/new-relic-browser) to get visibility into end-user activity.
* [Custom instrumentation](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/features/ruby-custom-instrumentation): Instrument transactions not captured as part of our framework instrumentation.
* [Agent API](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/customization/ruby-agent-api-guide): Use the agent API to fully customize the agent's behavior. For example, you can collect custom metrics, flag an error, or ignore a particular transaction entirely.
* [Custom metrics](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/features/ruby-custom-metrics): Record additional metrics as part of a transaction to gain more insights into your app's performance and business data.
* [Agent attributes](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/attributes/ruby-agent-attributes): Customize the [attributes](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/agent-metrics/agent-attributes) attached to transactions. Customizing attributes allows you to avoid sending sensitive attributes, or to collect additional attributes for deeper visibility into your transactions.

## Troubleshooting [#tshoot]

If you're having problems, see the Ruby agent troubleshooting docs. Common issues include:

* [No data appears (Ruby)](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/troubleshooting/no-data-appears-ruby)
* [Gems incompatible with the Ruby agent](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/troubleshooting/incompatible-gems)
* [Sending handled errors to New Relic](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/troubleshooting/sending-new-relic-handled-errors)
* [Controlling when the Ruby agent starts](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/troubleshooting/controlling-when-ruby-agent-starts)

## Check the source code [#source-code]

The Ruby agent is open source software. That means you can [browse its source code](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-ruby-agent) and send improvements, or create your own fork and build it. For more information, see the [README](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-ruby-agent/blob/main/README.md).
