src/content/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/installation/install-version2-kubernetes-integration-windows.mdx, before:

---
title: Install the version 2 Kubernetes integration in Windows
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Kubernetes integration
  - Installation
metaDescription: How to install the K8s integration for Windows.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/installation/install-kubernetes-integration-windows
---

<Callout title="LIMITED RELEASE">
  This feature is a limited release.
</Callout>

## Compatibility and requirements [#k8-windows-req]

Before you install the [Kubernetes integration](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/get-started/introduction-kubernetes-integration), review the [compatibility and requirements](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/get-started/kubernetes-integration-compatibility-requirements).

<Callout variant="important">
  When using containers in Windows, the container host version and the container image version must be the same. Our Kubernetes integration can run on Windows versions LTSC 2019 (1809), 20H2, and LTSC 2022.
</Callout>

To check your Windows version:

1. Open a command window.
2. Run the following command:
  ```shell
  Reg Query "HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion" /v
  ReleaseIdcmd.exe
  ```

### Example: Get Kubernetes for Windows from a BusyBox container

Run this command:

```shell
kubectl exec -it busybox1-766bb4d6cc-rmsnj -- Reg Query
  "HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion" /v ReleaseId
```

You should see something like this:

```shell
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion
	ReleaseId	REG_SZ	1809
```

A useful mapping between Release IDs and OS versions can be found [here](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-windows-servercore).

## Install [#k8-windows-install]

You can install the Kubernetes integration for Windows using Helm. See an example on how to install the integration in a cluster with nodes having different build versions of Windows (1809 and 2004):

1. Add the New Relic Helm charts repo:

  ```shell
  helm repo add newrelic https://helm-charts.newrelic.com
  ```

2. Create a namespace for newrelic:

  ```shell
  kubectl create namespace newrelic
  ```

3. Install kube-state-metrics.

  ```shell
  helm repo add ksm https://kubernetes.github.io/kube-state-metrics
  helm install ksm ksm/kube-state-metrics --version 2.13.2
  ```

<Callout variant="important">
  The command above allows installing kube-state-metrics, which is a mandatory dependency of the integration, on a Linux node. Generally k8s control plane runs on a Linux node. But, If your cluster does not have any Linux node, the command above might not work. New Relic cannot offer support on how to install kube-state-metrics on non-linux nodes.
</Callout>

4. Create a `values.yml` file with the follow data to be used by Helm:

  ```yaml
  global:
    licenseKey: _YOUR_NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY_
    cluster: _K8S_CLUSTER_NAME_

  enableLinux: true  # Set to true if your cluster also has linux nodes
  enableWindows: true
  windowsOsList:
    - version: 2019  # Human-readable version identifier
      imageTag: 2-windows-1809-alpha  # Tag to be used for nodes running the windows version above
      buildNumber: 10.0.17763  # Build number for your nodes running the version above. Used as a selector.
    - version: 20h2
      imageTag: 2-windows-20H2-alpha
      buildNumber: 10.0.19042
    - version: 2022
      imageTag: 2-windows-ltsc2022-alpha
      buildNumber: 10.0.20348
  ```

5. Install the integration with:

  ```shell
  helm upgrade --install newrelic newrelic/newrelic-infrastructure \
  --namespace newrelic --create-namespace \
  --version 2.7.2 \
  -f values-newrelic.yaml
  ```

6. Check that pods are being deployed and reach a stable state:

  ```shell
  kubectl -n newrelic get pods -w
  ```

The Helm chart will create one DeamonSet per each version of Windows that is in the list and use NodeSelector to deploy the corresponding Pod per Node.

<InstallFeedback />

## Limitations [#k8-windows-limitations]

The following limitations apply to the Kubernetes integration for Windows:

* The Windows agent only sends the [Kubernetes samples](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/understand-use-data/understand-use-data#event-types) (`K8sNodeSample`, `K8sPodSample`, etc.)
  * `SystemSample`, `StorageSample`, `NetworkSample`, and `ProcessSample` are not generated.
* Some [Kubernetes metrics](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/understand-use-data/understand-use-data#metrics) are missing because the Windows kubelet doesn’t have them:
  * Node:
    * `fsInodes`: not sent
    * `fsInodesFree`: not sent
    * `fsInodesUsed`: not sent
    * `memoryMajorPageFaultsPerSecond`: always returns zero as a value
    * `memoryPageFaults`: always returns zero as a value
    * `memoryRssBytes`: always returns zero as a value
    * `runtimeInodes`: not sent
    * `runtimeInodesFree`: not sent
    * `runtimeInodesUsed`: not sent
  * Pod:
    * `net.errorsPerSecond`: not sent
    * `net.rxBytesPerSecond`: not sent
    * `net.txBytesPerSecond`: not sent
  * Container:
    * `containerID`: not sent
    * `containerImageID`: not sent
    * `memoryUsedBytes`: in the UI, this is displayed in the pod card that appears when you click on a pod, and will show no data. We will soon fix this by updating our charts to use `memoryWorkingSetBytes` instead.
  * Volume:
    * `fsUsedBytes`: zero, so `fsUsedPercent` is zero

## Known issues with the Windows Kubelet [#k8-windows-limitations]

There are a couple of issues with the Windows version of Kubelet that can prevent the integration from fetching data:

* [Issue 90554:](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/90554) This issue makes the Kubelet return 500 errors when the integration makes a request to the `/stats/summary` endpoint. It will be included in the Kubernetes 1.19 release and has been backported to the releases 1.16.11, 1.17.7, and 1.18.4. There is no solution on the integration side for this problem, we advise you to update to one of the patch versions as soon as possible. You can see if you're being affected by this problem by [enabling verbose logs](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/troubleshooting/get-logs-version#verbose) and looking for messages of the type:

```shell
error querying Kubelet. Get "https://<KUBELET_IP>/stats/summary": error calling kubelet endpoint. Got status code: 500
```

* [Issue 87730:](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/87730) This issue makes the Kubelet metrics very slow when running minimal load. It makes the integration fail with a timeout error. A patch for this issue has been added for Kubernetes 1.18 and backported to 1.15.12, 1.16.9, and 1.17.5. We advise you to update to one of the patch versions as soon as possible. To mitigate this issue you can increase the integration timeout with the [`TIMEOUT` config option](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/installation/kubernetes-integration-install-configure#kube-state-metrics-timeout-change). You can see if you're being affected by this problem by [enabling verbose logs](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/troubleshooting/get-logs-version#verbose) and looking for messages of the type:

```shell
error querying Kubelet. Get "https://<KUBELET_IP>/stats/summary": context deadline exceeded (Client.Timeout exceeded while awaiting headers)
```

Commit message:

Updating k8s Windows integration doc
Signed-off-by: RagalahariP <rpotti@newrelic.com>

src/content/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/installation/install-version2-kubernetes-integration-windows.mdx, after:

---
title: Install Kubernetes integration in Windows
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Kubernetes integration
  - Installation
metaDescription: How to install the K8s integration for Windows.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/installation/install-kubernetes-integration-windows
---

<Callout title="LIMITED RELEASE">
  This feature is a limited release.
</Callout>

## Compatibility and requirements [#k8-windows-req]

Before you install the [Kubernetes integration](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/get-started/introduction-kubernetes-integration), review the [compatibility and requirements](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/get-started/kubernetes-integration-compatibility-requirements).

<Callout variant="important">
  When using containers in Windows, the container host version and the container image version must be the same. Our Kubernetes integration can run on Windows versions LTSC 2019 (1809), 20H2, and LTSC 2022.
</Callout>

To check your Windows version:

1. Open a command window.
2. Run the following command:
  ```shell
  Reg Query "HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion" /v
  ReleaseIdcmd.exe
  ```

### Example: Get Kubernetes for Windows from a BusyBox container

Run this command:

```shell
kubectl exec -it busybox1-766bb4d6cc-rmsnj -- Reg Query
  "HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion" /v ReleaseId
```

You should see something like this:

```shell
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion
	ReleaseId	REG_SZ	1809
```

A useful mapping between Release IDs and OS versions can be found [here](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-windows-servercore).

## Install [#k8-windows-install]

You can install the Kubernetes integration for Windows using Helm. See an example on how to install the integration in a cluster with nodes having different build versions of Windows (1809 and 2004):

1. Add the New Relic Helm charts repo:

  ```shell
  helm repo add newrelic https://helm-charts.newrelic.com
  ```

2. Create a namespace for newrelic:

  ```shell
  kubectl create namespace newrelic
  ```

3. Install kube-state-metrics.

  ```shell
  helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
  helm install ksm  prometheus-community/kube-state-metrics --version 5.2.0  
  ```

<Callout variant="important">
 The command above allows installing kube-state-metrics, which is a mandatory dependency of the integration, on a linux node. By any chance if kube-state-metrics are scheduled on a non-linux node, it might fail to create pods successfully. Generally as k8s control plane designed to run on a linux node, cluster will have a linux node. So, use nodeSelector and get kube-state-metrics to deploy on a linux node. This will get the kube-state-metrics up. If your cluster does not have any linux node, the command above might not work. New Relic cannot offer support on how to install kube-state-metrics on non-linux nodes.
</Callout>

4. Create a `values-newrelic.yaml` file with the follow data to be used by Helm:

  ```yaml
  global:
    licenseKey: _YOUR_NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY_
    cluster: _K8S_CLUSTER_NAME_
  kubelet:
    enableWindows: true
    windowsOsList:
      - version: 2019
        imageTag: 2-windows-1809-alpha
        buildNumber: 10.0.17763
      - version: 2022
        imageTag: 2-windows-ltsc2022-alpha
        buildNumber: 10.0.20348
  ```

5. Install the integration with:

  ```shell
  helm upgrade --install newrelic newrelic/newrelic-infrastructure \
  --namespace newrelic --create-namespace \
  --version 3.18.0 \
  -f values-newrelic.yaml
  ```

6. Check that pods are being deployed and reach a stable state:

  ```shell
  kubectl -n newrelic get pods -w
  ```

The Helm chart will create one DeamonSet per each version of Windows that is in the list and use NodeSelector to deploy the corresponding Pod per Node.

<InstallFeedback />

## Limitations [#k8-windows-limitations]

The following limitations apply to the Kubernetes integration for Windows:

* The Windows agent only sends the [Kubernetes samples](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/understand-use-data/understand-use-data#event-types) (`K8sNodeSample`, `K8sPodSample`, etc.)
  * `SystemSample`, `StorageSample`, `NetworkSample`, and `ProcessSample` are not generated.
* Some [Kubernetes metrics](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/understand-use-data/understand-use-data#metrics) are missing because the Windows kubelet doesn’t have them:
  * Node:
    * `fsInodes`: not sent
    * `fsInodesFree`: not sent
    * `fsInodesUsed`: not sent
    * `memoryMajorPageFaultsPerSecond`: always returns zero as a value
    * `memoryPageFaults`: always returns zero as a value
    * `memoryRssBytes`: always returns zero as a value
    * `runtimeInodes`: not sent
    * `runtimeInodesFree`: not sent
    * `runtimeInodesUsed`: not sent
  * Pod:
    * `net.errorsPerSecond`: not sent
    * `net.rxBytesPerSecond`: not sent
    * `net.txBytesPerSecond`: not sent
  * Container:
    * `containerID`: not sent
    * `containerImageID`: not sent
    * `memoryUsedBytes`: in the UI, this is displayed in the pod card that appears when you click on a pod, and will show no data. We will soon fix this by updating our charts to use `memoryWorkingSetBytes` instead.
  * Volume:
    * `fsUsedBytes`: zero, so `fsUsedPercent` is zero

## Known issues with the Windows Kubelet [#k8-windows-limitations]

There are a couple of issues with the Windows version of Kubelet that can prevent the integration from fetching data:

* [Issue 90554:](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/90554) This issue makes the Kubelet return 500 errors when the integration makes a request to the `/stats/summary` endpoint. It will be included in the Kubernetes 1.19 release and has been backported to the releases 1.16.11, 1.17.7, and 1.18.4. There is no solution on the integration side for this problem, we advise you to update to one of the patch versions as soon as possible. You can see if you're being affected by this problem by [enabling verbose logs](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/troubleshooting/get-logs-version#verbose) and looking for messages of the type:

```shell
error querying Kubelet. Get "https://<KUBELET_IP>/stats/summary": error calling kubelet endpoint. Got status code: 500
```

* [Issue 87730:](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/87730) This issue makes the Kubelet metrics very slow when running minimal load. It makes the integration fail with a timeout error. A patch for this issue has been added for Kubernetes 1.18 and backported to 1.15.12, 1.16.9, and 1.17.5. We advise you to update to one of the patch versions as soon as possible. To mitigate this issue you can increase the integration timeout with the [`TIMEOUT` config option](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/installation/kubernetes-integration-install-configure#kube-state-metrics-timeout-change). You can see if you're being affected by this problem by [enabling verbose logs](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/troubleshooting/get-logs-version#verbose) and looking for messages of the type:

```shell
error querying Kubelet. Get "https://<KUBELET_IP>/stats/summary": context deadline exceeded (Client.Timeout exceeded while awaiting headers)
```
